{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red243\green235\blue0;\red217\green11\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue51;\red183\green177\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15420\viewh7120\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a inscriptions (Ik\u7779 v\u257 kus of Vijayapuri)\
\
Collection based on publications in Epigraphia Indica (EI) and K. Raghunath, 
\i The Ik\uc0\u7779 v\u257 kus of Vijayapuri
\i0 , Delhi 2001 (KR).\
\
File originally compiled by D. Lielukhine (DL). Edited by Arlo Griffiths (AG).\
\
DL notes in his file: \'91Considering last specified publication [KR] as serious event in Indology, I am compelled to ascertain very bad quality of the publication. Therefore, after many attempts to separate obvious typographical mistakes from special reading of inscriptions by the author, I simply bring many texts "as is" in publication of K. Raghunath.\'92\
\
Gautam\uc0\u299 putra Vijaya-\u346 \u257 takar\u7751 i Satavahana\
      1 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a inscr. of Gautam\u299 putra Vijaya-\u346 \u257 takar\u7751 i, year 6 (No 29)\
\
V\uc0\u257 si\u7779 \u7789 h\u299 putra \u346 r\u299  Ch\u257 ntam\u363 la I\
      2 Re\uc0\u7751 \u7789 \u257 la pillar inscr. year 5\
      3 Kes\uc0\u257 napalli pillar inscr. year 13\
\
M\uc0\u257 \u7693 har\u299 putra \u346 r\u299  V\u299 rapuru\u7779 adatta I \
N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a inscriptions\
      4 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 3 year 6\
      5 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 2 year 6\
      6 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 1 year 6\
      7 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 5 year 6\
      8 Site-2_Ayaka pillar B 4 year 6\
      9 Site-1_Ayaka pillar (R-7A) from stores_publ by K. Raghunath\
      10 Site-1_Ayaka pillar B 5 year 6\
      11 Site-1_unpublished Ayaka pillar (R-8A) year 6 \
      12 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 4 year 6\
      13 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar (R-9A) year 6\
      14 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year 6 (R-9B)\
      15 Site-I_Ayaka pillar B 2 year 6\
      16 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year 6 (R-10A)\
      17 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year _(R-10B)\
      18 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year 6 (R-10C)\
      19 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year (R-10D)\
      20 Site-I_2 Apsidal Temple inscription F year 14\
      21 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 3 year 15\
      22 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 4 year 15\
      23 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 5 year\
      24 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription year 15 (R-13_13A)\
      25 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription year (R-13B)\
      26 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription (R-13C)\
      27 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription (R-13D)\
      28 Site-I_1 Apsidal Temple inscription E year 18\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf2 29????\cf0 \
      30 Stupa No. 9_Site-9 Pillar inscription L year 20\
      34 Site-I_Broken pillar inscription year 24\
      35 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 19\
      36 Site 23 Fragmentary inscription on sculptured panel\
      37 Site 9 Fragmentary pillar inscription\
      38 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 6\
      39 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 2\
      40 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 1\
      41 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 21\
      42 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 9\
      43 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 17\
      29 Uppugundur inscription_year 19\
\
Jagayyap\uc0\u1077 \u7789 a inscriptions\
      31 Pillar inscription 1_year 20\
      32 Pillar inscription 2_year 20\
      33 Pillar inscription 3_year 20\
\
V\uc0\u257 si\u7779 \u7789 hiputra \u346 ri Ehuvula Ch\u257 \u7751 tam\u363 la \
N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a inscriptions\
      44 Site-I_Stupa 5 Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G year 2\
      45 Site-5 Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G 3 year 2\
      46 Site-5 Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G 2 year 2\
      47 Site-9 Stupa 9 Broken pillar inscription year 8\
      48 Site-9 Stupa 9 Broken pillar inscription year 8\
      50 Site 99 Dartideya Swami temple inscription, year 11\
      51 Site 7_8 Detached pillar inscription H, year 11\
      52 Site 61 Pillar inscription, year 13\
      53 Site 34 Pillar inscription, year 16\
      54 Site 106 Pillar inscription, year 24\
      56 Site 126 Pillar inscription (333 AD ?)\
      57 Site 56 Memorial pillar inscription (No 39)\
      58 Site 1 Ayaka pillar inscription B 1\
      59 Site 39 Sculpture pedestal inscription\
      60 Site 7 Memorial pillar inscription (No 42)\
      61 Site 56 Footprint slab inscription\
      62 Memorial pillar inscription (No 44)\
      49 Alluru pillar inscription year 8\
      55. Patagandhigudem (Kalla Cheruvu) copper plates \
\
Mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 ja Rudrapuru\u7779 adatta \
      82 Gurzala pillar inscription 4 year\
      83 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a inscription of the time of Rudapurisadata, Year 11\
\
65 \uc0\u256 bh\u299 ra Vasu\u7779 \u1077 \u7751 a inscription, year 30 \
      D.C. Sircar reading\
      K. Raghunath reading\
\
King's name not mentioned\
N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a inscriptions\
      63 Memorial pillar inscription (No 45)\
      64 Memorial pillar inscription (No 46)\
      66 Two labels inscriptions on the counch-shells (48)\
      67 Site 64 Pillar inscription at Yaksha-Kubera temple \
      68. Site 36 Memorial Pillar inscription \uc0\u346 ri Ehuvula Ch\u257 \u7751 tam\u363 la of Kulahaka family\
      69 Site 113 Stone fragment inscription of ...\uc0\u7693 atta\
      70 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (52)\
      71 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (53)\
      72 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (54)\
      73 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (55)\
      74 Site 9 Broken image pedestal inscription (56)\
      75 Site 59 Memorial Pillar inscription (57)\
      76 Site 60 Memorial Pillar inscription (58)\
      77 University site Memorial Pillar inscription (59)\
      79 Site-9 Stupa 9 Ayaka pillar inscription N (60)\
      80 Site 1 Stone frieze inscription (61)\
      81 Fragmentary sculpture inscription K (62)\
      84 Fragmentary pillar inscription (65)\
      85 Site 64 Label inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (66)\
      86 Site 64 Label inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (67)\
      87 Site 64 Pilgrim inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (68)\
      88 Site 64 Pilgrim inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (69)\
      89 Site 61 Pilgrim inscription (70)\
      90 Site 64 Pilgrim inscription (71)\
      91 Site 85 Pilgrim inscription (72)\
      92 Site 23 Fragmentary inscription (73)\
      94 Site 99 Fragmentary inscription (75)\
      95 Site 84 Fragmentary inscription(76)\
      96 Footprint slab inscription (77)\
      101 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a unpublished inscription (82)\
      102 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a unpublished Ayaka pillar inscription(83)\
\
      78 Gangaperuru Memorial Pillar inscription (59A)\
\
Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala\
      97 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala pillar inscription A (78)\
      98 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala pillar inscription B (79)\
      99 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala pillar inscription C (80)\
      100 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala prakrit inscription D (81)\
\
      103 Pedabankur Terracotta Seal inscription (84)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS001 	Nagarjunakonda prakrit inscription of the time of Gautam\uc0\u299 putra Vijaya-\u346 \u257 takar\u7751 i, year 6\
\
H. Sarkar, EI XXXVI (1966), no. 33, pp. 273\'96274;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 67 (no 1).\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  [na]mo bhagavato \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \'b0agapogalasa\

\b (2)
\b0  ra\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 \'f1\cf2 o\cf0  gotamiputasa \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  sirivijayasa-\

\b (3)
\b0  taka\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 \uc0\u7751 \u7751 isa \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 sava \cf2 6\cf0  gipa 4 diva ves[\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 ]-\

\b (4)
\b0  khapu\uc0\u7751 ima \cf2 :\cf0 \
_____________________\
From the original and impressions. \cb3 Inscription uses word spacing. Extra vertical space between lines 1 and the rest.\cb1 \
L. 4. The punctuation to denote the end of the record is indicated by two visarga-like dots. (AG: I don\'92t see these.)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS002 	Re\uc0\u7751 \u7789 \u257 la pillar inscr. year 5\
		Rentala pillar inscription of the time of V\uc0\u257 si\u7779 \u7789 h\u299 putra \u346 r\u299  C\u257 ntam\u363 la I\
		Rentala, Palnad Taluk, Guntur District\
		The inscription is engraved on a sculptured white marble pillar\
\
S. Sankaranarayanan, EI XXXVII (1967\'9668), no. 5, pp. 29\'9632;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 69 (no  2), no plate.\
\

\b TEXT\
(1)
\b0  siddha[m\'b7] \cf4 \'95\cf0  namo bhagavato ra\uc0\u7745 \cf2 \'f1o vase\cf0 -\

\b (2)
\b0  \cf2 (\uc0\u7789 hiputasa)\cf0  \cf2 sirica\cf0 \uc0\u7745 tamulasa vija\cf2 ya(sa\uc0\u7745 )-\cf0 \

\b (3)
\b0  va\cf2 ch\cf0 ara\cf2 [\uc0\u7745 ] pacama[\u7745 ] 5\cf0  v\uc0\u257 s[\u257 ]\u7751 a[\u7745 ] pa\cf2 kha[\uc0\u7745 ]\cf0 \

\b (4)
\b0  padhama\cf2 \uc0\u7745  1\cf0  \cf2 di\cf0 va\cf2 sa[\uc0\u7745 ] pa\cf0 dhama\uc0\u7745  [1] \cf2 \'95\cf0  nakare ga\uc0\u7745 -\

\b (5)
\b0  \cf2 jiku\cf0 \uc0\u7789 \cf2 e\cf0  vathavasa va\cf2 \uc0\u7751 i\cf0 ja\cf2 ka\uc0\u10216 sa\u10217  sa\u7745 ghi\cf0 -\

\b (6)
\b0  [\cf2 la\cf0 ]sa bhariya\uc0\u10216 ya\u10217  ca \cf2 va\cf0 \uc0\u7751 ijaki\u7751 i\cf2 ya ha\uc0\u7745 \cf0 -\

\b (7)
\b0  ghaya \cf2 put[e]\uc0\u7751 a\cf0  \cf2 va\cf0 \uc0\u7751 ijake\cf2 na c\cf0 u\cf2 \uc0\u7789 \cf0 i\cf2 [dh\uc0\u257 ]\cf0 -\

\b (8)
\b0  [ra]si\cf2 ri\uc0\u7751 a\cf0  sabhariyake\uc0\u7751 a sadhutuke-\

\b (9)
\b0  na \cf2 sa[su\uc0\u7745 ]hav\cf0 i\cf2 vahena\cf0  samitanat\cf2 u\cf0 ke[na]\

\b (10)
\b0  \cf2 [sa]paca\cf0 catuhi \'b0a\cf2 pa\uc0\u7751 o\cf0  \'b0\uc0\u257 yuvadha[\cf2 ni\cf0 ]-\

\b (11)
\b0  \cf2 (ka\uc0\u7745 ) v[i]jaya\cf0 vejayika\uc0\u7745  ca game tuva\cf2 [re]\cf0 \

\b (12)
\b0  \cf2 ?? /// (vi)[h\uc0\u257 ra]\cf0 ma\uc0\u7745 \u7693 ale \cf2 \'b0upeda\cf0 giriva[dha]-\

\b (13)
\b0  (\cf2 m\uc0\u257 ne\cf0  bha)///\cf2 ga\cf0 vato budhasa sa\uc0\u7745 \cf2 ghasa\cf0 \

\b (14)
\b0  \cf2 ??? (ma)///\uc0\u7693 a\cf0 ve sel\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 may[o \'b0\uc0\u257 \cf2 ya\cf0 ]-\

\b (15)
\b0  (ka)///\cf2 kha\cf0 bho karito t\cf2 i\cf0  \cf2 \'95\cf0 \
__________________________\
Cf. D.C. Sircar, op. cit., p. 38. 4 From the impressions.\
L. 1. The final m (in Siddham) is written slightly below the line. This punctuation mark is indicated by a small horizontal stroke. Ragh. read name and ra\uc0\u7745 \u7751 o v\u257 ge\
L. 2. The damaged letters are obviously \uc0\u7789 hiputasa. (Ragh - \u7789 h\u299 putasa). Ragh read Ch\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasa. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \cb5 L. 2\'963. 
\i vijaya[sa\uc0\u7745 ]vachara[\u7745 ]
\i0 : it seems that 
\i [sa\uc0\u7745 ]
\i0  stood at the end of l. 2 rather than beginning of l. 3, as Sankaranarayanan assumes.\cb1 \
L. 4.  \'95] This punctuation mark is indicated by a small horizontal stroke.\
L. 5. Ragh. va\uc0\u7751 ij\u257 ka[sa*]\
L. 6. Ragh. -bhariy\uc0\u257 , -va\u7751 ijaki\u7751 \u299 ya. \cb3 Possibility of reading sa\uc0\u7745 ghaya?\cb1 \
L. 7. put[e]\uc0\u7751 a] putana Sankaranarayanan. Ragh read gh\u257 ya putan va\u7751 jakena Chu\u7789 i[dh\u257 ]-.\
L. 8. In the original pillar very faint mark of ra appears before si; read siri\uc0\u7751 \u257 . Ragh read siri\u7751 a, sa-bhar\u299 yake\u7751 a. \
L. 9. This letter (ha), originally written as \uc0\u257 , is corrected into su. Ragh. read -sa-[sun]ha-vi(ni)vahena sa-mith-natake[na]. \cb3 Apparently Sankaranarayana wants to correct 
\i vi
\i0  to 
\i ni
\i0 , but we assume 
\i vivahena \'97
\i0  if this reading is correct \'97 could be < Skt.\cb5  viv\uc0\u257 hyena.\cb1 \
L.10. \'b0catuhi] \'b0catu\uc0\u7745 hi Sankaranarayanan. \'97 \'b0\u257 yuvadha[\cf2 ni\cf0 ]-] \'b0\uc0\u257 yuvadha- Sankaranarayanan. Ragh read -ayu-vadha-.\
L. 11. The lost letter may be restored as ni; Indistinct trace of this letter [re] - may be found in the impression. Ragh. read stroke . [da\uc0\u7745 ] v[i]jaya-vejayika\u7745  ch g\u257 me Tuva[re]-\
L. 12. Two letters seem to have been lost here which apparently contained the name of the vih\uc0\u257 ra (Ragh =). Ragh. read Upendagiri.\
	\cb3 Why restore nasal in ma\uc0\u7745 \u7693 ale but not in Upenda\'b0?\
	compound vih\uc0\u257 rama\u7751 \u7693 ala found in Vallabh\u299  and N\u257 land\u257  inscriptions; see article Petra Kieffer-P\'fclz (2000)\cb1 \
L. 13. The three letters which are lost here are obviously m\uc0\u257 ne Bha (Ragh - -manebha).\
L. 14. Of the four letters which are broken away and lost, the last one may be restored as ma. \\Ragh. selamay[o]-\
L. 15. The broken portion of the pillar here must have been big enough to accommodate five letters. But as the usual expression is \uc0\u257 yaka-khabha or -ska\u7745 bha, only one letter viz. ka appears to have been lost. Thus the last line ka-khabho, etc. appears to have been engraved in the middle. Cf. above, Vol. XX, Plate facing p. 18, B. 4, line 7 and Plate facing p. 19, C. 2, line 12. Ragh read k\u257 rito \
Sk. L. 11. Better vaijaya-vijayika\uc0\u7717 .\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS003 	Kes\uc0\u257 napalli pillar inscr. year 13\
		Kesanapalli, Palnad Taluk, Guntur District.\
\
R. Subrahmanyam, Ep. And., I, pp. 146 ff.;\
Md. Abdul Waheed Khan, A monograph on an Early Buddhist Stupa at Kesanapalli (Hyderabad, 1969), pp. 1-4;\
S. Sankaranarayan, EI XXXVIII (1969\'9670) no. 52, pp. 317\'96318;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 70 (no 3).\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  (v\uc0\u257 si)///\u7789 h\u299 putasa siric\cf2 a\cf0 \uc0\u7745 tam\u363 lasa sa\u7745 vachara\u7745  10 3 hematona\u7745  1 diva 1 mah\u257 ra\u7789 hisa ///\

\b (2)
\b0  /// g\uc0\u257 ma \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  ni\uc0\u7693 iga\cf2 le\cf0  \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 nig\uc0\u257 \cf2 jasa\cf0  \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  b\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ahusut\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0 y\uc0\u257 na\u7745  \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 m\uc0\u363 lavasivih\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 racetika \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 ga\cf2 \uc0\u7745  \cf0 ///\

\b (3)
\b0  /// budhisa putehi v\uc0\u257 \cf2 n\cf0 ikin\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0 ya ha\uc0\u7745 g\u257 ya putehi v\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 ijakehi \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 mah\uc0\u257 ca\u7745 dena \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  \cf2 cula \cf0 /// \

\b (4)
\b0  /// sasehi ca \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  n\uc0\u299 gasa\u7745 ba\u7745 dh\u299 vagehi \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \'b0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 eka\cf2 tahe\cf0 tuno ma\cf2 h\uc0\u257 ceti\cf0 ke budhinikha\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 bho pa(t)i///(\uc0\u7789 h/th)(apito) \
______________\
L. 1. hematona\uc0\u7745 : emend hema\u7745 tapakha\u7745 ; hema\u7745 t\u257 na\u7745  <pakha\u7745 > Sankaranarayanan. Likely miswriting of na\u7745  for kha\u7745 , and omission of pa. Other possibly intended text was hema\u7749 ta pa (abbreviation).\
L. 2. g\uc0\u257 ma: g\u257 me Sankaranarayanan; possibility of reading g\u257 ma\u7745  (see plate Raghunath) but locative seems likely. \
Nidgali nigajasa instead g\uc0\u257 me Ni\u7693 igale nig\u257 jasa and -chetikegu(*)... instead -chetik[e] Ga\u7745 \
	nig\uc0\u257 jasa < nik\u257 yasya\
	possible restitution ga\uc0\u7745 dhaku\u7693 i, cf. IKS097.3. But see n. 10 in EI.\
L. 3. v\uc0\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 ijakehi: va\cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 ijakehi Sankaranarayanan. \'97 mah\uc0\u257 cadena: mah\u257 ca\u7745 dena Sankaranarayanan.\
	n\uc0\u299 ga < nija(ka)? cf. IKS054.1 svajanasa\u7745 bandhivargena\
	ekatahetuno < ek\uc0\u257 ntahetuno or ekatvahetuno?\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS004 	Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 3 year 6\
The inscription is engraved on an Ayaka-pillar found on the west side of the Mahachaitya, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, pp. 16\'9617, \uc0\u256 yaka-pillar C 3;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 72 (no 4), no plate;\
top: estampage Leiden N7 (VI-3-b);\
bottom: estampage Leiden N7 (VI-3-a).\
\

\b TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa supabudhabodhino sava\u7745 \cf2 \'f1u\cf0 no \

\b (2)
\b0  savasat\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 nuka\uc0\u7745 pakasa jitar\u257 gadosamohavipamutasa mah\u257 ga\u7751 ivasabha- \

\b (3)
\b0  ga\uc0\u7745 dhaha\cf2 t\cf0 hisa sa\uc0\u7745 masa\u7745 [budh]asa dh\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa mah\cf2 [\uc0\u257 ]\cf0 cetiye mah\uc0\u257 rajasa \

\b (4)
\b0  vir\uc0\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigahitasa hira\cf2 \uc0\u7751 a\cf0 ko\uc0\u7789 igosatasahasahalasa-\

\b (5)
\b0  tasaha\cf2 \uc0\u10216 sa\u10217 \cf0 pad\uc0\u257 yisa sava\cf2 t\cf0 hesu \'b0apatihatasa\uc0\u7745 kapasa v\u257 si\u7789 h\cf2 i\cf0 putasa \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 kusa \

\b (6)
\b0  siric\uc0\u257 tam\u363 lasa sodar\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0  bhagini ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o m\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u7693 h\cf0 ar\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0 putasa sirivirapurisadatasa \

\b (7)
\b0  pituch\uc0\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa v\u257 si\cf2 \uc0\u7789 h\cf0 \uc0\u299 putasa p\u363 k\u299 y\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 na\uc0\u7745  ka\u7745 dasiri\cf2 [sa]\cf0 \

\b (8)
\b0  bhariy\uc0\u257  sama\u7751 aba\cf2 m[h*]a\uc0\u7751 a\cf0 kava\uc0\u7751 avanijakad\u299 n\u257 nugahavel\u257 mikad\u257 napa\u7789 ibhaga\cf2 vo\cf0 - \

\b (9)
\b0  chi\uc0\u7745 nadh\u257 rapad\cf2 [\uc0\u257 ]\cf0 yini savas\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 dhuvachal\uc0\u257  mah\u257 d\u257 napatini mah\u257 talavari kha\u7745 d\cf2 a\cf0 s\uc0\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 akam\u257 t\u257  \

\b (10)
\b0  c\uc0\u257 tisiri \'b0apa\cf2 no\cf0  \'b0ubhayakulasa \'b0atichita-m-an\uc0\u257 gatava\u7789 am\u257 nak\u257 na\u7745  parin\u257 metuna\u7745 \

\b (11)
\b0  \'b0ubhayalokahitasukh\uc0\u257 \cf2 va\cf0 hathan\uc0\u257 ya \'b0ata\cf2 no\cf0  ca niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 asa\u7745 patisa\u7745 p\u257 dake \

\b (12)
\b0  savalokahitasukh\uc0\u257 vahathan\u257 ya ca \'b0ima\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\u7745  pati\cf2 t\cf0 hapita\uc0\u7745  ti \'96\

\b (13)
\b0  ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o siriv\u299 rapurisadatasa sava \cf2 6\cf0  \uc0\u10218 v\u257 pa \cf2 6\cf0 \uc0\u10219  diva 10\
_____________________________________________________\
L. 1. Invocation of Buddha omitted in X; supabudha-bodhino up to sa\uc0\u7745 ma-sa\u7745 budhasa omitted in B 3, l. 1; C 1, l. 1; D 2, l. 1; D 4, l. 1. Ragh read name, bodhi\u7751 o, sava\u7745 \'f1u\u7751 o \
L. 3. ima\uc0\u7745 mhi mah\u257 chetiye in A 4, l. 3; D 4, l. 1 (mah\u257 chet\u299 ye); imamhi mah\u1077 chetiye in A 3, ll. 2-3; D 2, l. 1; mah\u257 chet\u299 ye in A 2, l. 3.\
L. 4. Vir\uc0\u363 pakhapati-Mah\u257 sena-parigahitasa omitted in D 2, l. 2. Agihot-\u256 gi\u7789 homa-V\u257 japey-\u256 samedha-y\u257 jisa after - parigahitasa in A 2, ll. 3-4; A 3, ll. 3-4, A 4, l. 4; -parigah\u299 tasa in B 3, l. 2; D 4, l. 2; hira\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7789 i- in A 2, l. 4; A 3, l. 4; B 3, l. 3; D 4, l. 3. Ragh read Vir\u363 p\u257 khapati\
L. 5. Vasi\uc0\u7789 h\u299 putasa in A 3, l. 5; A 4, l. 5; B 3, l. 4; X, l. 3; V\u257 se\u7789 h\u299 putasa in C 1, l. 4; V\u257 s\u299 \u7789 h\u299 - in D 2, l. 3; V\u257 s\u299 dhi in D 4, l. 4. Ragh read apathihata-, \
L. 6. Ch\uc0\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasa in A 2, l. 5; A 3, l. 5; A 4, l. 5; C 1, l. 5; D 4, l. 4; X, l. 3; M\u257 \u7693 har\u299 putasa omitted in A 3, l. 5; D 4, l. 5; M\u257 \u7693 hariputasa in A 4, l. 6; X, l. 3.\
L. 7. -sen\uc0\u257 patisa omitted in X, l. 4; read: V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa with A 4, l. 6; B 3, l. 6; C 1, l. 6; X, l. 4. the reading is V\u257 si\u7789 hiputasa in A 2, l. 6; V\u257 se\u7789 h\u299 - in D 2, l. 5; V\u257 sidh\u299 - in D 4, l. 5; P\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745  in B 3, l. 6; X, l. 4; Kadasirisa in A 4, l. 7; D 4, l. 6; X, l. 4. Omitted in A 3, l. 6. Ragh. read P\u363 k\u299 na\u7745 .\
L. 8. -va\uc0\u7751 ija- in A 3, l. 6; -va\u7751 ijaka- in A 4, l. 7; B 3, l. 6; C 1, l. 7; D 2, l. 5; D 4, l. 6; X, l. 5; vail\u257 mika in A 4, l. 7; -vel\u257 mi- in B 3, l. 7; D 2, l. 6; Read: pa\u7789 ibh\u257 ga, the reading of A 2, l. 7; A 4, ll. 7-8; B 3, l. 7; C 1, l. 7; D 2, l. 6; D 4, l. 6; X, l. 5.\
Ragh read -din-\uc0\u257 nugaha-vel\u257 mika-d\u257 na-pa\u7789 ibh\u257 ga-vo\
L. 9. vochhina in A 2, l. 7; A 3, l. 7; A 4, l. 8; B 3, l. 7; C 1, l. 7; D 4, l. 6; X, l. 5; mah\uc0\u257 d\u257 napatini omitted in B 3, l. 7; D 2, l. 6; D 4, l. 7; Kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 aka- in A 3, l. 7; A 4, l. 8; C 1, l. 8; X, l. 6. Khada- in D 2, l. 7; D 4, l. 7. Ragh. read Kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 \u257 ka-\
L. 10. Ch\uc0\u257 \u7745 tisiri in A 3, l. 7; A 4, l. 9; C 1, l. 8; X, l. 6. Ch\u257 \u7745 tisiri\u7751 ik\u257  in B 3, l. 8; -va\u7789 am\u257 nake in B 3, l. 8; D 4, l. 8; X, l. 7; parin\u257 metuna in A 3, l. 8; A 4, l. 9; parinametuna in D 4, l. 8; parin\u257 met\u363 na (?) in X, l. 7; apano ubhaya-kula-parin\u257 met\u363 na in C 1, l. 8. Ragh. read atichhitam\u7751 \u257 gata-vatam\u257 nak\u257 na\u7745  pari\u7751 \u257 metuna\u7745 \
L. 11. ubhaya-loka-sukha-niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya in A 3, l. 8; A 4, l. 10; X, l. 7. Omitted in B 3, l. 9; C 1, l. 9; D 4, l. 8. X, l. 8 has after -sa\u7745 p\u257 dake the following: bhagavato sa\u7745 ma-sa\u7745 budhasa \u7789 h\u257 tu-(dh\u257 tu) vara-parigahi-tasa mah\u257 chetiyamhi.\
L. 12. -sukha-niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya in A 3, l. 9; A 4, l. 10 (?); D 4, l. 9. Sava-loka- omitted in B 3, l. 9.\
L. 13. v\uc0\u257  pa 6 written under the line. In A 3, l. 10 and A 4, l. 11 these aksharas have been omitted. Ragh read v\u257 sa\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS005 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 2 year 6\
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar (in two pieces) found on the west side of the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI 20 (1929\'9630), p. 19 (\uc0\u256 yaka-pillar C 2);\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 74 (no 5);\
top: estampage Leiden N7 (VI-2-b);\
bottom: estampage Leiden N6 (VI-2-a).\
\

\b TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa sa\u7745 ma\{sa\u7745 ma\}sa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvara-\

\b (2)
\b0  parigahitasa mah\uc0\u257 cetiye mah\u257 rajasa vir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigah\cf2 i\cf0 tasa \

\b (3)
\b0  \'b0agihot\uc0\u257 gi\u7789 ho\{gi\u7789 ho\}mav\u257 japey\u257 samedha\cf2 y\uc0\u257 ji\cf0 sa hira\uc0\u7751 ako\u7789 igosata- \

\b (4)
\b0  sahasahalasatasahasapad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu \'b0apatihatasa\u7745 kapasa \

\b (5)
\b0  v\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 si\uc0\u7789 h\u299 putasa \'b0ikh\u257 kusa siric\u257 tamulasa sodaraya bhaginiya ha\u7745 ma- \

\b (6)
\b0  siri\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 \uc0\u7751 ik\u257 ya b\u257 lik\u257  \cf2 ra\uc0\u7745 \cf0 \'f1o sirivirapurisadatasa bhay\uc0\u257  mah\u257 devi b\cf2 a\cf0 pisiri\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 \uc0\u7751 ik\u257  \

\b (7)
\b0  \'b0apano m\uc0\u257 tara\u7745  ha\u7745 masiri\u7751 ika\u7745  parinamatuna \'b0ata\cf2 ne\cf0  \cf2 ca\cf0  \cf2 n\cf0 iv\uc0\u257 \u7751 \cf2 a\cf0 sa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 patisa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 p\uc0\u257 dake \

\b (8)
\b0  \'b0ima\uc0\u7745  sela\cf2 th\cf0 a\uc0\u7745 bha\u7745  pati\u7789 hapita\u7745  \'b0ac\cf2 [\uc0\u257 ]\cf0 ri[\cf2 y\uc0\u257 \cf0 ]na\uc0\u7745  \'b0aparamah\u257 vinaseliy\u257 na\u7745  suparigahita(\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 ) \

\b (9)
\b0  \'b0ima\uc0\u7745  mah\u257 cetiyanavakama\u7745  pa\u7745 \u7751 ag\u257 mavathav\u257 na\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  d\uc0\u299 ghamajhimapa\u7745 \cf2 da\cf0 m\uc0\u257 tukadesa\cf2 \uc0\u10216 kav\u257 \u10217 cak\u257 [na\u7745 ] \cf0 \

\b (10)
\b0  \'b0aray\uc0\u257 na \'b0ayira\cf2 ha\cf0 gh\uc0\u257 na \'b0a\u7745 tev\u257 sikena d\u299 ghama\cf2 \uc0\u10216 jhima\u10217 \cf0 nigayadharena bhada\uc0\u7745 t\u257 na\u7745 dena \

\b (11)
\b0  ni\uc0\u7789 hapita ima navakama mah\u257 cetiya\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  kha\uc0\u7745 bh\u257  ca \u7789 hapit\u257  ti ra\u7745 \'f1o sariviripurisadatasa \

\b (12)
\b0                                                  sa\uc0\u7745 va 6 v\u257  pa 6 diva 10\
___________________________\
L. 1. sa\uc0\u7745 ma- has been written twice by mistake.\
L. 2. Perhaps pariga\uc0\u7745 hitasa. Ragh read stroke: par\u299 gatisa Mah\u257 chetiye mah\u257 r\u257 jasa Vir\u363 p\u257 khapati-Mah\u257 sena-parigahitasa \
L. 3. The two aksharas gi\uc0\u7789 ho (in \u256 gi\u7789 hogi\u7789 homa) have been written twice by mistake.\
L. 5. Ragh read Ik\uc0\u7779 v\u257 kusa. \
L. 5. \'b0mulasa: \'b0m\uc0\u363 lasa Vogel. \'97 sodaraya: sodar\u257 ya Vogel.\
L. 7. Read : parin\uc0\u257 met\u363 na(\u7745 ); atano. Ragh suggest to read parinamatuna as parvametana\u7745 \
L. 8. sela-tha\uc0\u7745 bha\u7745 (sa) patithapita\u7745 (sa)-. \cb3 Emend selakha\uc0\u7745 bha\u7745 ? The compound is normally with \'b0kha\u7745 bha.\cb1  \'97 pati\uc0\u7789 hapita\u7745 : patithapita\u7745  Vogel.\
L. 9. -pa\uc0\u7745 da: read or correct pa\u7745 ca (cf. IKS006, l. 11).\
L. 10.  \'b0aray\uc0\u257 na: \'b0aray\u257 na[\u7745 ] Vogel, with note proposing to read: 
\i \uc0\u257 cariy\u257 na\u7745 
\i0 . \'97 \'b0ayira\cf2 ha\cf0 gh\uc0\u257 na: \'b0ayira\cf2 ha\cf0 gh\uc0\u257 na[\u7745 ] Vogel; understand \'b0ayira\cf2 ha\uc0\u7745 \cf0 gh\uc0\u257 na\u7745 , cf. IKS006, l. 11. \'97 For 
\i d\uc0\u299 ghamajhimanik\u257 yadharena
\i0 , cf. IKS006, l. 12.\
L. 11. ni\uc0\u7789 hapita ima navakama: ni\u7789 hapita[\u7745 ] ima[\u7745 ] navakama[\u7745 ] mah\u257 cetiya\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  Vogel. \'97 kha\uc0\u7745 bh\u257 : khambh\u257  Vogel. \'97  sariviri\'b0: emend sirivira\'b0.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS006 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 1 year 6\
The inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar found on the west side of the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 17, \uc0\u256 yaka-pillar C 1 (Additional passage);\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 76 (no 6) \cf2 [rubbing shown here belongs to IKS005]\cf0 ;\
top: Estampage Leiden N6 (VI-1-b);\
bottom: Estampage Leiden (VI-1-a).\
\

\b TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa sa\u7745 masa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 b\cf2 u\cf0 dhasa dh\uc0\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa \

\b (2)
\b0  \cf2 (ma)[h\uc0\u257 ]\cf0 cetiye mah\uc0\u257 r\cf2 a\cf0 jasa vir\uc0\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 s\cf2 e\cf0 naparigahitasa \'b0agiho-\

\b (3)
\b0  t\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 gi\uc0\u7789 h\cf2 omav\uc0\u257 \cf0 japey\uc0\u257 samedhay\u257 jisa hira\cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 ako\uc0\u7789 igosatasahasahalasa-\

\b (4)
\b0  tasahasapad\uc0\u257 yisa sava\cf2 \uc0\u7789 ha\cf0 su \'b0apatihatasa\uc0\u7745 kapasa \cf2 v(\uc0\u257 )[se]\cf0 \uc0\u7789 h\u299 putasa \cf2 \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 kusa\cf0  \

\b (5)
\b0  siric\uc0\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 tam\uc0\u363 lasa \cf2 s\cf0 odar\uc0\u257  bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o sirivirapurisadatasa pi\cf2 tu\cf0 ch\uc0\u257  mah\u257 se\cf2 na\cf0 patisa\

\b (6)
\b0  mah\uc0\u257 talavarasa v\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 \cf2 pu\cf0 tasa p\uc0\u363 k\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0 y\uc0\u257 na\u7745  ka\u7745 dasirisa bhay\u257  sama\u7751 abamha\u7751 akava\u7751 a-\

\b (7)
\b0  va\cf2 n\cf0 ijakadin\uc0\u257 nugahavel\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 mika\cf2 d\uc0\u257 na\cf0 pa\uc0\u7789 ibh\u257 gavochinadh\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 rapad\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 yini savas\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 dhuv\cf2 a\cf0 chal\cf2 a-\cf0 \

\b (8)
\b0  mah\uc0\u257 talavari kha\u7745 das\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 gara\uc0\u7745 \u7751 akam\u257 t\u257 c\u257 \u7745 tisiri \'b0apa\cf2 n\cf0 o \'b0ubhayakula\uc0\u10218 sa\u10219  parin\u257 metuna\u7745  \'b0atan\cf2 e\cf0  ca\

\b (9)
\b0  niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 asa\u7745 patisa\u7745 p\u257 dake \'b0ima\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  kha\uc0\u7745 bha\u7745  savalokahitasukh\u257 vahathan\u257 ya ca pati\u7789 hapit\u257  ti \

\b (10)
\b0  \cf2 \'b0a\cf0 cariy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  \'b0aparamah\u257 vinas\cf2 e\cf0 liy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  suparigahita\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  \cf2 \'b0i\cf0 ma\uc0\u7745  mah\u257 cetiyanavaka\u7745 ma\cf2 [\uc0\u7745 ]\cf0  \

\b (11)
\b0  pa\uc0\u7745 \u7751 ag\u257 mavathav\u257 na\u7745  d\u299 ghamajhimapa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 cam\uc0\u257 tukadesakav\u257 cak\u257 na\u7745  \cf2 \'b0\uc0\u257 \cf0 cariy\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 na\uc0\u7745  \'b0ayiraha\u7745 gh\u257 na\cf2 [\uc0\u7745 ]\cf0  \

\b (12)
\b0  \'b0a\uc0\u7745 tev\u257 sikena d\u299 ghamajhimanik\u257 yadharena bha\cf2 [d]\cf0 a\uc0\u7745 t\u257 na\u7745 dena ni\cf2 tha\cf0 pita\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  \'b0ima\uc0\u7745  navaka\cf2 \uc0\u10218 \u7745 \u10219 \cf0 ma\uc0\u7745  mah\u257 cetiya\u7745  \

\b (13)
\b0  kha\uc0\u7745 bh\u257  ca \u7789 h\cf2 a\cf0 pit\uc0\u257  ti ra\u7745 \'f1o siriv\cf2 i\cf0 rapurisadatasa sava 6 v\uc0\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
_____________________\
Cf. the corresponding passage in IKS005. Vogel read only the last four lines.\
L. 10 \'b0acariy\uc0\u257 na\u7745 ] \'b0\u257 cariy\u257 na\u7745  Vogel.\
L. 11. \'b0desaka\'b0] \'b0osaka\'b0 Vogel, with note correcting to \'b0desaka\'b0 and referring to C 2, l. 9.\
L. 12. bha\cf2 [d]\cf0 a\uc0\u7745 t\u257 na\u7745 dena] bhaja\u7745 t-\u256 na\u7745 dena Vogel; the reading with j is not much more evident than reading with d.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS007 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 5 year 6\
This inscription is engraved on an \uc0\u256 yaka pillar found on the west side of the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda and now kept in the Museum.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 21, \uc0\u256 yaka-pillar C 5;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 78 (no 6A);\
Estampage Leiden N6 (VI-5).\
\

\b TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato sa\u7745 masa\u7745 bu\u10218 dha\u10219 sa dh\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa mah\u257 cet\u299 y\cf2 e\cf0  \

\b (2)
\b0  mah\uc0\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah[\u257 ]talavarasa v\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa p\u363 k\u299 y\u257 na\u7745  mah\u257 ka\u7745 dasirisa \

\b (3)
\b0  bhay\uc0\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa vi\u7751 husirisa m\u257 t\u257  mah\u257 talavari \'b0apano \

\b (4)
\b0  \'b0ubhayakula\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  parin\uc0\u257 me\cf2 tu\cf0 \uc0\u10218 na\u10219  \'b0atano \'b0ubhayalokahitasukhaniv\u257 \u7751 athaya ca \'b0ima\u7745  \

\b (5)
\b0  selakha\uc0\u7745 bha\u7745  pati\u7789 hapita\u7745  \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674  \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 mah\uc0\u257 rajasa sirivirapurisadatasa sa\u7745 va 6 v\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
_______________________________\
L. 1. mah\uc0\u257 cet\u299 ye] mah\u257 cetiye Vogel.\
L. 4. parin\uc0\u257 me\cf2 tu\cf0 \uc0\u10218 na\u10219 ] VT wonders whether we can read 
\i parin\uc0\u257 metv\u257 
\i0 .\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS008 Site-2_Ayaka pillar B 4 year 6\
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar found on the south side of the Mahachaitya, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 18, \uc0\u256 yaka-pillar B 4;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 80 (no 7) [the rubbing seems to have been \'91enhanced\'92, i.e. tampered with to become more legible, and hence may not be a fully mechanical reproduction];\
Estampage Leiden N8 (V-4 Fourth pillar).\
\

\b TEXT
\b0  \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa supabudhabo\u10218 dhino\u10219  sava\u7745 \'f1uno sava\cf2 sa(t\uc0\u257 -)\cf0 \

\b (2)
\b0  nuka\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 pakasa jitar\uc0\u257 gadosamohavipamutasa mah\u257 ga\u7751 ivasabhaga\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 dha\cf2 ha\cf0 [thi](sa) \

\b (3)
\b0  sa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 masa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 bu\cf2 dh\cf0 asa dh\uc0\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa mah\u257 cetiye ku\cf2 la\cf0 hak\uc0\u257 na\u7745  b\u257 lik\u257  \

\b (4)
\b0  mah\uc0\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa v\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa hira\'f1a\u7745 k\u257 na\u7745  kha\u7745 dacaliki\cf2 re\uc0\u7745 ma\u7751 aka(sa) \cf0 \

\b (5)
\b0  bhay\uc0\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patini culac\u257 tisiri\u7751 ik\u257  \'b0apano \'b0ubhayalokahitas\cf2 u\cf0 khani- \

\b (6)
\b0  v\uc0\u257 \u7751 a\cf2 th\cf0 an\uc0\u257 ya \'b0ima\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  selakha\uc0\u7745 bha\u7745  pati\u7789 hapita\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  ti ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o \cf2 siri\cf0 virapurisadatasa \

\b (7)
\b0  				sa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 va 6 v\uc0\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
_______________________________\
L. 1. supabudhabo\uc0\u10218 dhino\u10219 ] the restoration is based on parallels in \cf2 IKS004, 010 etc\cf0 .\
L. 3. \'b0sa\uc0\u7745 bu\cf2 dh\cf0 asa] -sa\uc0\u7745 bugasa Vogel. Raghunath\'92s rubbing shows a 
\i dha
\i0 .\
L. 4. hira\'f1a\uc0\u7745 k\u257 na\u7745 ] hira\u7745 \'f1ak\u257 na\u7745  Vogel. Emend to hira\u7745 \'f1ak\u257 na\u7745 .\
	L. 6. \cb3 \'b0than\uc0\u257 ya: make note on the formulaic element\cb1 .\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS009 Site-1_Ayaka pillar (R-7A) from stores_publ by K. Raghunath\
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar found in the stores at Nagarjunakonda (unpublished)\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 82 (no 7A), omitting the last line; although no image of any rubbing is furnished in Raghunath, this is almost certainly the same as the 10-line inscription of which an estampage is held in Leiden under N8. That rubbing bear the legends \'92S 3. Pillar soith side of mount \uc0\u362 bagu\u7789 \u7789 a; V-3 Third pillar\'92.\
\
TEXT\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \cb6 (1) sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa samasabudhasa dh\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa\
(3) ga\uc0\u7745 dhaha\cf2 t\cf0 hisa sa\uc0\u7745 masa\u7745 [budh]asa dh\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa \
(2) mah\uc0\u257 cet\cf2 i\cf0 ye mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa vir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigah\u299 tasa \'b0agi\cf2 he\cf0 t\uc0\u257 [gi]-\
(3) \uc0\u7789 homav\u257 japey\u257 samedhay\u257 jisa hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 igosatasahasahalasatasa[ha]\cf2 (sa)-\
\cf0 (4) pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu \'b0apatihatasa\u7745 kapasa v\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa \'b0ikh\u257 kusa siric[\cf2 \uc0\u257 tam\u363 \cf0 ]lasa \
(5) sodar\uc0\u257  bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o sirivirapurisadatasa pituch\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavara\cf2 sa\cf0  \
(6) v\uc0\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa pukiy\u257 na\u7745  ka\u7745 dasirisa bhariy\u257  sama\u7751 abamha\u7751 akava\u7751 ava\u7751 ijakad\u299 n\u257 \cf2 nugaha\cf0 \
(7) vel\uc0\u257 mikad\u257 napa\u7789 ibh\u257 gavochinadh\u257 rapad\u257 yini savas\cf2 a\cf0 dhuvachal\uc0\u257  mah\u257 talavari kha\cf2 \uc0\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \cf0 \uc0\u7751 aka\
(8) m\uc0\u257 t\u257  c\u257 tisiri\u7751 ik\u257  \'b0apa\cf2 no\cf0  \'b0ubhayakulasa \'b0atichita-m-an\uc0\u257 gatava\u7789 am\u257 nake parin\u257 m[e](tu) \
(9) niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 asa\u7745 patisa\u7745 p\u257 dakahitasukhaniv\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya \cf2 ca\cf0  \'b0ima\uc0\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\u7745  patithapi\cf2 (ta\uc0\u7745  ti)\cf0 \
(10) ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o siriv\u299 rapurisadatasa sa\u7745 va 6 v\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \cb1 \
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS010 Site-1_Ayaka pillar B 5 year 6\
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar found on the south side of the Mahachetiya at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX p. 19, \uc0\u256 yaka-pillar B 5;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 83 (no 8);\
Estampage Leiden N8 (\cf2 V-? Fifth pillar\cf0 , 2 copies).\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa supabudhabodhino sava\u7745 \'f1uno savasa\cf2 t[\uc0\u257 ](nu-)\cf0  \

\b (2)
\b0  ka\uc0\u7745 pakasa jitar\u257 gadosamohavipamutasa mah\u257 ga\u7751 ivasabhaga\u7745 dhaha\cf2 dh\cf0 isa \

\b (3)
\b0  sa\uc0\u7745 masa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa mah\u257 cetiye \'b0ujanik\u257  mah\u257 rabalik\u257 \

\b (4)
\b0  mah\uc0\u257 devi rudradharabha\u7789 arik\u257  \'b0ima\u7745  selakha\u7745 bha\u7745  \'b0apano hitasukhaniv\u257 \u7751 a\cf2 dh\cf0 an\uc0\u257 ya pati\cf2 \uc0\u7789 h[\u257 ]\cf0 pita\uc0\u7745  \

\b (5)
\b0  mah\uc0\u257 talavarihi ca p\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745  c\u257 \u7745 tisiri\u7751 ik\u257 hi \'b0imasa mah\u257 vih\u257 rasa mah\u257 cet\u299 ya\u7745 \

\b (6)
\b0  samu\cf2 tha\cf0 piyam\uc0\u257 ne mah\u257 talavar\u299 su \'b0ubhayit\u257  di\cf2 n\uc0\u257 \cf0 rim\uc0\u257 sak\u257  satarisata\u7745  100 70 kha\u7745 bho ca \

\b (7)
\b0  ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o sirivirapurisadatasa sa\u7745 va 6 v\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
_______________________________\
L. 2. \'b0hadhisa] Vogel proposes to emend \'b0hathisa.\
L. 3. \'b0ujanik\uc0\u257  mah\u257 rabalik\u257 ] Vogel proposes to emend \'b0ujenik\u257  mah\u257 r\u257 jab\u257 lik\u257 . SB suggests < mah\u257 rha\'b0?\
L. 4. \'b0niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 a\cf2 dh\cf0 an\uc0\u257 ya] Vogels proposes to emend \'b0niv\u257 \u7751 \u257 than\u257 ya. Cf. IKS006 and IKS007.\
L. 5. mah\uc0\u257 cet\u299 ya\u7745 ] Vogel proposes to emend mah\u257 cetiye. \
L. 6. mah\uc0\u257 talavar\u299 su] mah\u257 talavar\u299 \'b0a Vogel.\
L. 6. Vogel: \'91The meaning probably is that the Queen Rudradharabha\uc0\u7789 \u257 rik\u257 , besides dedicating a pillar, contributed a sum of 170 
\i din\uc0\u257 ri-m\u257 sakas
\i0  towards the expenses incurred by Ch\uc0\u257 \u7745 tisiri for the building of the st\u363 pa.\'92\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS011 Site-1_unpublished Ayaka pillar year 6 \
\
Raghunath 2001, p. 85 (no 8A) \
\
Similar but not identical text on unidentified fragment among Leiden N15.\
\

\b TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1) 
\b0 +++++++++++++++++ /// [naka] /// +++++++++\

\b (2)
\b0  ++++++++++ \'b0apa///t(i)hata sa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 kapasa v\uc0\u257 si\u7789 hiputasa \'b0ikh\u257 \cf2 (ku)[sa]\cf0 \

\b (3)
\b0  (siric\uc0\u257 tam)\u363 (la)sa \cf2 so\cf0 dar\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0  bhagini ra\'f1o m\uc0\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u7693 h\cf0 ar\uc0\u299 putasa sirivirapurisadatasa\

\b (4)
\b0  pituch\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0  mah\uc0\u257 senapatisa mah\u257 talavarasa v\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 si\uc0\u7789 h\u299 putasa p\u363 k\u299 y\u257 na\u7745  ka\u7745 dasi\cf2 [r](i)-\cf0 \

\b (5)
\b0  bhariy\uc0\u257  sama\u7751 abama\u7751 akava\cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 ava\cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 ijakad\uc0\u299 n\u257 nugahavel\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 mikad\uc0\u257 napa\u7789 ibh\u257 gavo-\

\b (6)
\b0  chinadh\uc0\u257 rapad\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 yini savas\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 dhuvachal\uc0\u257  mah\u257 d\u257 napatini mah\u257 talavari kha\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 das\uc0\u257 gara\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \u7751 aka(sa)\cf0 \

\b (7)
\b0  c\uc0\u257 tisiri \'b0apano \'b0ubhaya\cf2 ku\cf0 lasa \'b0atichita-m-an\uc0\u257 gatava\u7789 am\u257 nak\u257 na\u7745  parin\u257 me\cf2 (tuna)\cf0 \

\b (8)
\b0  \cf2 \'b0ubha\cf0 yalokahitas\cf2 u[kh\uc0\u257 ]vaha\cf0 than\uc0\u257 ya \'b0atano ca niv\u257 \u7751 asa\u7745 patisa\u7745 p\u257 da\cf2 ke\cf0 \

\b (9)
\b0  \cf2 sava\cf0 lokahitasukh\uc0\u257 vaha\cf2 tha\cf0 n\uc0\u257 ya ca \'b0ima\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  patithapi\cf2 t\uc0\u257 \cf0  ti \cf2 =\cf0 \

\b (10)
\b0  \cf2 ra\'f1o\cf0  siriv\uc0\u299 rapuri\cf2 sa\cf0 datasa sava 6 \uc0\u10218 v\u257 pa \cf2 6\cf0 \uc0\u10219  diva 10 \
_____________________\
L. 4\'965. ka\uc0\u7745 dasi[r](i)bhariy\u257 ] or restore ka\u7745 dasi[r](i)sa bhariy\u257 , as in most other inscriptions.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS012 Site-I_Ayaka pillar C 4 year 6\
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka Pillar found on the west side of the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 20, \uc0\u256 yaka-pillar C 4;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 87 (no 9);\
Estampage Leiden N7 (VI-4).\
\

\b TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa sa\u7745 masa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa \

\b (2)
\b0  mah\uc0\u257 cet\u299 yamhi mah\u257 rajasa vir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 sen\cf2 a\cf0 parigah\uc0\u299 tasa \'b0agih\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 ta-\

\b (3)
\b0  \'b0agi\uc0\u7789 homav\u257 japey\u257 samedhay\u257 jisa hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 igosatasahasahalasata- \

\b (4)
\b0  sahasapad\uc0\u257 yi\cf2 sa\cf0  savathesu \'b0apatihatasa\uc0\u7745 kapasa v\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa \cf2 \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 kusa\cf0  \

\b (5)
\b0  siric\uc0\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasa sodar\u257 bhaginiya ha\u7745 mas\u10216 i\u10217 riya b\u257 lik\u257  mah\u257 rajasa \

\b (6)
\b0  m\uc0\u257 \u7693 har\u299 putasa sirivirapurisadatasa bha\cf2 y\cf0 \uc0\u257  mah\u257 devi cha\u7789 hisiri \'b0apano \

\b (7)
\b0  m\uc0\u257 tara\u7745  ha\u7745 masiri\u7751 ika\u7745  parin\u257 metuna \'b0a\cf2 t\uc0\u257 \cf0 na\uc0\u7745  ca niv\u257 \u7751 asa\u7745 patisa\u7745 p\u257 dake \'b0ima\u7745  bha\u7745 kha\u7745  \

\b (8)
\b0  pati\uc0\u7789 hapit\cf2 a\cf0 \uc0\u7745  mah\u257 r\u257 \cf2 ja\cf0 sa sirivirapurisadatasa sava 6 v\uc0\u257 pa 6 d\u10216 i\u10217 va 10\
____________________________________________\
L. 2. mah\uc0\u257 cet\u299 yamhi] mah\u257 detiya\u7745 hi Vogel, with note emending to mah\u257 cetiya\u7745 hi.\
L. 2. \'b0agih\uc0\u257 ta-] correct \'b0agihota-.\
L. 5. ha\uc0\u7745 mas\u10216 i\u10217 riya] we suspect the engraver started writing a 
\i si
\i0 , but stopped after the first short horizontal stroke.\
L. 7. \'b0at\uc0\u257 na\u7745 ] correct \'b0atano.\
L. 7. bha\uc0\u7745 kha\u7745 ] correct kha\u7745 bha\u7745 .\
L. 8. d\uc0\u10216 i\u10217 va] d\u257 va Vogel, with correction to 
\i diva
\i0 ; but the ak\uc0\u7779 ara is clearly 
\i da
\i0 .\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS013 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar (R-9A) year 6\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 89 (No 9A);\
estampage Leiden N11.\
\
TEXT \
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  mah\u257 r\u257 jasa vir\u363 pakhapati mah\u257 sena par\u299 gahitasa aghot-\u257 githoma-v\u257 ja-\
2. pey\uc0\u257 samedhay\u257 kods jots\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789  gosota sahasa halasatasahasa pad\u257 yisa savathesu\
3. apat\uc0\u299 hata sa\u7745 kapasa Vasit\u7717 iputasa Ik\u257 kusa Siri Chatam\u363 lasa sodar\u257  bhagini ro\u7745 \'f1 m\u257 \u7693 hariputasa\
4. Siri Virapurisadatasa P\uc0\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745  Ka\u7745 dasirisa bhariy\u257 sama\u7751 a\
5. bahma\uc0\u7751 a-kavana-vanijaka kinanugaha velamika d\u257 napatibhag vochhita dara padayni to saduva .... \
6. mah\uc0\u257 d\u257 napatini mah\u257 talavari Khamdas\u257 gara\u7745 naka m\u257 t\u257  Chatisiri apa\u7751 o ubhayaleka hita anisita mana\
7. gata vatamane parin\uc0\u257 metuna ubhayakulasx xapana sukhani v\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya ataneoeha niv\u257 \u7751 a sampati sampadake\
8. bhagavato sama sambudhasa dh\uc0\u257 tuvara parigahitasa mah\u257 chetiya\u7745 hi ima\u7745  sava loka hita sukh\u257 va\
9. ha than\uc0\u257 ya patithapit\u257 ti ra\u7745 \u7751 o Siri Virapurisadatasa save 6 v\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
_______________________\
L 1. Aghot = agihot (? DL)\
L 5. Read Saduva chhala\
L 7. Read Uandhamami (skt). (=Bandham\uc0\u257 mi ? DL), apano (read ubhayakulas apana ? DL)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS014 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year 6 (R-9B)\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 91 (No 9B) \
\
TEXT \
1. Siddham namobha gavato devar\uc0\u257 jasakatasa sama sa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvara par\u299 gahitasa\
2. mah\uc0\u257 chetiye mah\u257 r\u257 jasa Vir\u363 pakhapati mah\u257 sena par\u299 gahitasa agihot-\u257 gi\
3. thoma v\uc0\u257 japey-\u257 samedhay\u257 jisa hira\u7751 ako\u7789 -go-satasahasa halasata sahasa\
4. pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu apat\u299 hata samkapasa V\u257 sit\u7717 \u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kusa siri Cha ... \
5. sodar\uc0\u257  bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o Siri Virapurisadatasa .. mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa\
6. V\uc0\u257 sit\u7717 \u299 putasa p\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745  Ka\u7745 dasirisa bhariy\u257  sama\u7745 a bamba\u7745 a-kava\u7745 a va\u7745 jaka chit\u257 (na)\
7. vel\uc0\u257 mi d\u257 napatibh\u257 ga vochhina dh\u257 ra pad\u257 yini sava sambuvachhala mah\u257 talavari kha\u7745 .... \
8. m\uc0\u257 t\u257  Ch\u257 tisiri\u7751 ik\u257  apano ubhayakulasa atichhita\
9. atano cha niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 a sa\u7745 pati samp\u257 daka hita sukhaniv\u257 \u7751 a than\u257 ya ima\u7751  khambha patit\u7717 apita\
10 .................................... \
____________\
L 4. Read: Ch\uc0\u257 tam\u363 lasa\
L 7. Read sava s\uc0\u257 duvachhala, khamdas\u257 garamnaka\
L 10. Read ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o Surivira Purisdatasa sava 6 vapa 6 diva 10 (=Sri Virapurishadatta, DL)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS015 Site-I_Ayaka pillar B 2 year 6\
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar found on the south side of the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 17\'9618, \uc0\u256 yaka-pillar B 2;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 93 (no 10);\
estampage Leiden N8 (V-2 Second pillar).\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(l. 1) Sidha\uc0\u7745  mah\u257 rajasa Asamedha-y\u257 jisa aneka-hira\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-go-satasahasa-hala-sata-\
(l. 2) sahasa-pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu apatihata-sa\u7745 kapasa V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kusa \
(l. 3) Siri-Ch\uc0\u257 [\u7745 ]tam\u363 lasa duhut\u257  ra\u7745 \'f1o Siri-Virapurisadatasa bhagini mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 - \
(l. 4) talavarasa mah\uc0\u257 da\u7745 \u7693 an\u257 yakasa Dhanak\u257 na\u7745  Kha\u7745 davis\u257 kha\u7745 \u7751 akasa bhay\u257  mah\u257 talavari \
(l. 5) A\uc0\u7693 avi-Ch\u257 tisiri apano ubhaya-kula\u7745  parin\u257 me[t\u363 ]na atano cha ubhaya-loka-hita-sukh\u257 vahathan\u257 ya \
(l. 6) bhagavato sa\uc0\u7745 ma-sabudhasa dh\u257 tuvara-parigah\u299 tasa Mah\u257 chet\u299 ye ima\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\u7745  patidhapa\u7745 ta ti \
(l. 7) ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o Siri-Virapurisadatasa sa\u7745 va 6 v\u257  pa 6 diva 10\
_____________________________________\
L. 6. Read: pati\uc0\u7789 h\u257 pita\u7745 .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  mah\u257 r\u257 jasa asamedhay\u257 jisa aneka-hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 i-go-satasahasa-hala sata\
2. sahasa-pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu apat\u299 hata sa\u7745 kapasa V\u257 sith\u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kusa\
3. Siri-Cha\uc0\u7745 tam\u363 lasa duhut\u257  ra\u7745 \'f1os Siri-Virapurisadatasa bhagini mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa maha\
4. talavarasa mah\uc0\u257 da\u7745 \u7693 an\u257 yakasa bhaya mah\u257 talavari\
5. A\uc0\u7693 avi-ch\u257 tisiri apano ubhayakulam pari\u7751 \u257 me(tu) na atano cha ubhaya-loka hita-sukh\u257 vahathanaya\
6. bhavagato sa\uc0\u7745 ma-sabudhasa dh\u257 tuvara parigahitasa mah\u257 chetiye imam khambham pati\u7693 ha pa\u7745 ta ti\
7. ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o Siri-Virapurisadatasa sa\u7745 va 6 v\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS016 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year 6 (R-10A)\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 95 (no 10A)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  name bhagavato sama sambudhasa dh\u257 tuvara par\u299 gahita sa ima\u7745 hi mah\u257 chetiye\
2. mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa Vir\u363 p\u257 khapati mah\u257 sena par\u299 gahitasa agihot \u257 gi\u7789 homa-v\u257 japey \u257 sa-\
3. meday\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7751 ako\u7789 i-go-satasahasa balasata-sahasa pad\u257 yisa savathesu\
4. apat\uc0\u299 hata sa\u7745 kapasa V\u257 sit\u7717 \u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kusa Siri Ch\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasa sodar\u257  bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o\
5. Siri Virapurisadatasa pitucha mah\uc0\u257 senapatisa mah\u257 talavarasa V\u257 sit\u7717 iputasa p\u363 kiy\u257 \
6. Ka\uc0\u7745 dasirisa bhariya sama\u7751 a-bumha\u7751 a-va\u7751 ijaka din\u257 nugaha vel\u257 mika d\u257 na patibh\u257 gave chhina\
7. dh\uc0\u257 ra pad\u257 yini sava s\u257 dhuvachhala mah\u257 talavari Khamdasagora\u7745 \u7751 aka m\u257 ta (ma)ti siri apano ubhaya ku(la)\
8. (a)li chh\uc0\u299  no g\u257 t\u257 nuv\u257 mika pari\u7745 metuna atanocha niv\u257 \u7751 a ..... ka imam kha\u7745 bha\u7745  sava\
9. loka-hita sukhaniv\uc0\u257 \u7751 a than\u257 ya v\u257 sanitha pita\u7745 ti ra\'f1 Siri Virapurisadatasa\
10. Sa\uc0\u7745 va 6 v\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS017 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year (R-10B)\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 97 (no 10B)\
estampage Leiden N9 (III-1 Second pillar)\
\
TEXT\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato sama sa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvara par\u299 gahitasa imamhi mah\u257 \
2. mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa hira\u7751 ako\u7789 i go-satasahasa halasata sahasapad\u257 yisa\
3. savathesu apatihata sa\uc0\u7745 kapasa V\u257 sit\u7717 \u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kusa Siri Ch\u257 tam\u363 la(ma)\
4. sodar\uc0\u257  bhagini rom\'f1o M\u257 d\u7717 ariputasa Siri Virapurisadata pituchha mah\u257 sen\u257 pati\
5. mah\uc0\u257 talavarasa V\u257 set\u7717 \u299 putasa p\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745  Kamdasirisa bhar\u299 ya sam\u257 na bamhana-kava\u7751 a va ...\
6. d\uc0\u299 n\u257 nugaha vel\u257 mi d\u257 na patiya .. dhu vachhala mah\u257 talava(ra)\
7. Kha\uc0\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 aka sa va ... pari\u7751 \u257 me (tu)\
8. atano cha niv\uc0\u257  (n\u257 than\u257 ya).......\
9....................................................\
_________\
L 4. Rom\'f1o = ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o (DL)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS018 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year 6 (R-10C)\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 99 (No 10C)\
estampage Leiden N15 (a fragment of a line 1 in this set may help to fill in gap in Raghunath\'92s text)\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  nao............................anuka\u7745 pakasa jita r\u257 ga\
2. dosa moha vipamutasa....................\uc0\u7693 h\u257 tuvara par\u299 gahitasa ima\u7745 hi\
3. mah\uc0\u257 chetiye mah\u257 r\u257 jasa Vir\u363 p\u257 khapati mah\u257 sena parigahitasa agihot-agit\u7717 oma-v\u257 japey-\u257 same-\
4. dhay\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7751 a-ko\u7789 -go-satasahasa hala satasahasa pad\u257 yisa savathesu apatihata sa\u7751 kapasa\
5. V\uc0\u257 sit\u7717 putasa Ikh\u257 kusa siri Ch\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasa sodar\u257  bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o Siri Virapurisadatasa pituchh\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa\
6. mah\uc0\u257 talavarasa V\u257 sit\u7717 \u299 putasa Ka\u7745 dasirisa bhariya sama\u7751 aba\u7745 ha\u7751 a-kava\u7751 a-vanija din\u257 nugaha vel\u257 mika d\u257 napati\
7. bh\uc0\u257 ga vochhina dh\u257 rapad\u257 yini savas\u257 dhu vachhala rnah\u257 d\u257 napatini mah\u257 talavari Kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 aka m\u257 t\u257 ch\u257 tisiri apa(no)\
8. ubhayakulasa atichhita m\uc0\u257 t\u257 ga samana k\u257  na pari\u7751 ametuna ubahayaloka hita sukhaniv\u257 \u7751 a t\u7717 an\u257 (ya).\
9. atanocha ni v\uc0\u257 \u7751 a sa\u7745 pati sa\u7745 p\u257 dake ima\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\u7745  savaloka sukhani v\u257 \u7751 a-than\u257 ya patit\u7717 apita\u7745 ti ra\u7745 \'f1o\
10. Siri Virapurisadatasa sa\uc0\u7745 va 6 diva 10 vapa 6\
\
IV-\cf2 ?-?\cf0  Third pillar\
(1) sidha\uc0\u7745  na[mo] (bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa supabudhabodhino sava\u7745 \'f1uno savasa)t\u257 nuka\u7745 pakasa jitar\u257 ga-\
(2) dosamohavipamutasa (mah\uc0\u257 ga\u7751 ivasabhaga\u7745 dhahathisa sa\u7745 masa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 )[tu]varaparigahitasa \'b0ima\u7745 mhi\
(3) mah\uc0\u257 cetiye mah\u257 r\u257 jasa vir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigahitasa \'b0agihot\u257 gi\u7789 homav\u257 japey\u257 same-\
(4) dhay\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 igosatasahasahalasatasahasapad\u257 yisa savathesu \'b0apatiha\u10218 ta\u10219 sakapasa\
(5) v\uc0\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa \'b0ikh\u257 kusa siric\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasa sodar\u257 bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o sirivirapurisadatasa pituch\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa\
(6) mah\uc0\u257 talavarasa v\u257 si\u7789 hiputasa kadasirisa bhariy\u257  \cf2 sama\uc0\u7751 abamha\u7751 akava\u7751 ava\u7751 i\cf0 jad\uc0\u299 n\u257 nugahavel\u257 mikad\u257 napa\u7789 i-\
(7) bh\cf2 a\cf0 gavochinadh\uc0\u257 rapad\u257 yini savas\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 dhuvachal\uc0\u257  mah\u257 d\u257 napatini mah\u257 talavari kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 akam\u257 t\u257  c\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 tisiri\'b0apano \
(8) \'b0ubhaya\cf2 kulasa \'b0a\cf0 tichita-m-an\uc0\u257 gatava\u7789 am\u257 nak\u257 na\u7745  parin\u257 metuna \'b0ubhayalokahitasukhaniv\u257 \u7751 atha\cf2 n\uc0\u257 ya\cf0  \
(9) \cf2 \'b0atano \cf0 ca niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 asa\u7745 patisa\u7745 p\u257 da\cf2 ke\cf0  \'b0ima\uc0\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  savalokahitasukhaniv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya pati\u7789 hapita\u7745  ti \'96 ra\u7745 \'f1o \
(10) siriv\uc0\u299 rapuri\cf2 sa\cf0 datasa sa\uc0\u7745 va 6 diva 10 \
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS019 Site-I_unpublished Ayaka pillar year (R-10D)\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 101 (No 10D)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato samasa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvara parigah\u299 tasa ima\u7745 hi mah\u257 \
2. mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa hira\u7751 ako\u7789 i-go-sata-sahasa-halasata-halasata-saha-sapad\u257 ysa \
3. savathesu ap\uc0\u257 tihata sa\u7745 kapasa V\u257 sit\u7717 \u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kusa Siri Ch\u257 tam\u363 la(sa)\
4. sodar\uc0\u257 bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o M\u257 d\u7717 ariputasa Siri Virapurisadatasa pituchh\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 pati(sa)\
5. mah\uc0\u257 talvarasa V\u257 set\u7717 \u299 putasa p\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745  Ka\u7745 dasirisa bhariya-sama\u7751 a-bamha\u7751 -kava\u7751 a va \
6. d\uc0\u299 n\u257 nugaha vel\u257 mi d\u257 napa\u7789 ibh\u257 ga ...................................... vachal\u257  mahatalaya\
_______________\
L 2. Sapad\uc0\u257 ysa = sapad\u257 yisa (DL)\
L 5. Mah\uc0\u257 talvarasa = mah\u257 talavarasa, Read vanija.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS020 Site-I_2 Apsidal Temple inscription F year 14\
This inscription is engraved on the slabs found on the floor of the apsidal shrine no. 11 on the mound called Nallaranabodu at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 22, Second Apsidal Temple inscription F;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 102 (no 11);\
estampage Leiden N10 (in two parts).\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(l. 1) Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato Ikh\u257 ku-r\u257 ja-pavara-risi-sata-pabhava-va\u7745 sa-sa\u7745 bhavasa deva-manusa-sava-sata-hita-sukha-maga-desikasa jita-k\u257 ma-kodha-bhaya-harisa-tarisa-moha-dosa-sada(\u257 )pita-M\u257 ra-bala-dapa-m\u257 na-pasamana-karasa dasa-bala-maha(\u257 )balasa a\u7789 ha[\u7745 *]-ga-maga-dhamachaka-pavatakasa chaka-lakha\u7751 a-sukum\u257 ra-suj\u257 ta-chara\u7751 asa taru\u7751 a-divasa-kara-pabhasa sarada-sasi-soma-darisanasa sava-loka-chita-mahitasa Budhasa ra\u7745 \'f1o M[\u257 \u7789 ha]riputasa . . . 10 [+*] 4 hema\u7745 ta-pakha\u7745  chha\u7789 ha\u7745  6 divasa\u7745  tera\u7745  10 [+*]3 . . . . ta [r\u257 ]-j\u257 char\u299 y\u257 na\u7745  Kasmira-Ga\u7745 dh\u257 ra-Ch\u299 na-Chil\u257 ta-Tosali-Avara\u7745 ta-Va\u7745 ga-Vanav\u257 si-Yava[na-]Da[mila-Pa]lura-Ta\u7745 bapa\u7745 \u7751 i-d\u299 pa-pas[\u257 ]dak\u257 na\u7745  theriy\u257 na\u7745  Ta\u7745 bapa[\u7745 ]\u7751 ak\u257 na\u7745  suparigahe \
(l. 2) Siripavate Vijayapuriya-puva-dis\uc0\u257 -bh\u257 ge vih\u257 re Chula-Dha\u7745 magir\u299 ya\u7745  chetiya-ghara\u7745  sapa\u7789 a-sa\u7745 thara\u7745  sachet\u299 ya\u7745  sava-niyuta\u7745  k\u257 rita\u7745  uv\u257 sik\u257 ya Bodhisiriya apano bhatuno Budhi[\u7745 ]nakasa pituno cha se Govag\u257 ma-vathavasa Revata-gahapatisa m\u257 tuya cha sa Budha\u7745 nik\u257 ya bh\u257 tuna\u7745  cha se Cha\u7745 damukhanasa Karu\u7745 budhinasa Hagha\u7745 nasa bhagin\u299 ya cha Revati\u7745 nik\u257 ya bh\u257 tu-put\u257 na\u7745  cha Mah\u257 -Cha\u7745 damukha-Chulo-Cha\u7745 damukh\u257 na\u7745  bh\u257 giney\u257 na\u7745  cha Mah\u257 -M\u363 la-Chula-M\u363 l\u257 na\u7745  apano cha ayakasa M\u363 lav\u257 niyasa ay\u299 k\u257 ya Budhav\u257 nik\u299 [n\u257 ya] m\u257 tulaka-[sa cha] ko\u7789 h[\u257 ]k\u257 rikasa Bhadasa Bodhisa\u7745 masa Cha\u7745 dasa Bodhikasa mah\u257 m\u257 tuk\u257 ya Bhadi[l\u257 ]ya Bodhiya cha apano pituno Budhi[v\u257 ]niyasa m[\u257 tuya] . . . \
(l. 3) bh\uc0\u257 tuno M\u363 lasa bhagin\u299 na\u7745  Budha\u7745 nik\u257 ya M\u363 la\u7745 nik\u257 ya N\u257 gabodhinik\u257 ya cha dh\u363 tuya V\u299 ra\u7745 nik\u257 ya put\u257 na\u7745  N\u257 ga\u7745 nasa V\u299 ra\u7745 nasa cha su\u7745 nh\u257 na\u7745  cha Bhadasiri-Mis\u299 na\u7745  evam-eva cha Kulaha-vih\u257 re chetiya-ghara\u7745  S\u299 ha\u7735 a-vih\u257 re bodhi-rukha-p\u257 s\u257 do Mah\u257 -Dha\u7745 magir\u299 ya\u7745  ovarako 1 Mah\u257 vi[h\u257 *]re ma\u7745 \u7693 ava-kha\u7745 bho Devagiriya\u7745  padh\u257 na-s\u257 l\u257  Puvasele ta\u7735 \u257 ka\u7745  a[\u7735 a\u7745 ]d\u257 -ma[\u7745 *]\u7693 avo cha Ka\u7745 \u7789 akasele mah\u257 chetiyasa puva-d\u257 re sela-ma\u7745 \u7693 avo Hirumu\u7789 huve ovarak\u257  ti\u7745 \u7751 i 3 Papil\u257 ya\u7745  ovarak\u257  sata 7 Puphagir\u299 ya[\u7745 ] sela-ma\u7745 \u7693 avo Dha\u7745  . . . . . . vih\u257 re sela-ma[\u7745 ]\u7693 avo eta\u7745  cha sava\u7745  uvariva\u7745 \u7751 i[ta\u7745  . . . s\u257 ]dhu-vagasa acha\u7745 ta-hita-sukh\u257 ya thavita\u7745  sava[sa] cha lokasa ima\u7745  navaka\u7745 ma\u7745  ti\u7745 hi navaka[\u7745 ]mikehi k\u257 rita\u7745  Cha\u7745 damukha-therena cha \
(l. 4) Dha\uc0\u7745 mana\u7745 di-therena cha N\u257 ga-therena cha sela-va\u7693 h\u257 kisa Vidhikasa ka\u7745 ma\u7745  ti\
_______________________________________________\
L. 1. [I would read -moha-dosasa dapita-M\uc0\u257 ra-\'97Ed.] The akshara \u7789 ha of M\u257 \u7789 hariputasa is partly preserved. After this word some five or six aksharas are lost. In the absence of any traces of i strokes, the missing word cannot have been Siri-Purisadatasa. In all probability it was sa\u7745 vachhara\u7745 , followed by a word expressing "fourteenth" (choda\u7745  ?). (For . . . ta [r\u257 ]-j\u257 char\u299 y\u257 na\u7745 ) perhaps bhada\u7745 ta-r\u257 j-\u257 chariy\u257 na\u7745  ? The words which I read Yavana-Damila-Palura are not quite certain. The Da of Damila is still legible and the long-drawn top strokes of the remaining two aksharas have led me to the conjectural reading mila, the body of the akshara m being partly preserved. The Pa of Palura is conjectural.\
L. 2. The akshara sa of m\uc0\u257 tulakasa is conjectural. As the word is followed by several personal names in the genitive case, one would expect m\u257 tulak\u257 na\u7745 , but the akshara ka shows no trace of an \u257 -stroke.\
L. 3. Perhaps se\uc0\u7735 a-ma\u7745 \u7693 a- (for a[\u7735 a\u7745 ]d\u257 -); some ten aksharas are lost after dha\u7745 ; the akshara ta\u7745  (in uvariva\u7745 \u7751 ita\u7745 )is conjectural. Perhaps tasa; the first akshara s\u257  (in s\u257 ]dhu-vagasa) has been restored tentatively The u-stroke of dhu is still faintly visible; the aksharas which I read acha\u7745 ta- (Skt. atyanta) are indistinct.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato Ikh\u257 kur\u257 ja pavara risisata-pabhavava\u7745 sa-sa\u7745 bhavasa deva-manusa-sava-sata hita sukha-maga desikasajita k\u257 ma-kodha-bhaya harisa tarisa-moha-dosa-sada(\u257 ) pita m\u257 ra-bala-dapa m\u257 napasamana karasa dasa b\u257 la maha(\u257 )balasa at\u7717 a(\u7745 ) gamaga dhamachakapavatakasa chakalakha\u7751 a sukum\u257 ra-suj\u257 tachara\u7751 asa taru\u7751 a-divasa karapabhasa sarada-sasi-sama-darisanasa sava-loka-hita-mahita sa Budhasa ra\u7745 \'f1o M(\u257 t\u7717 a)riputasa ......................... 10(+)4 hema\u7745 tapakha\u7745  chhat\u7717 a\u7745  6 divasa\u7745  tera\u7745  10(+)3 ta(r\u257 ) J\u257 char\u299 y\u257 na\u7745  a-ga\u7745 dh\u257 -ch\u299 na-chil\u257 ta-Tosali Avara\u7745 ta-va\u7745 -vanav\u257 si-yavana-Da(mila-pa)lura Ta\u7745 bapa\u7745 nid\u299 pa-pas(\u257 ~)dak\u257 na\u7745  theriv\u257 na\u7745  Tambapa(\u7745 )\u7751 ak\'f1a\u7745  suparigahe\
2. Siripavate vijayapuriya puvakis\uc0\u257  bh\u257 he vih\u257 re chuladha\u7745 magir\u299 ya\u7745  chetiya-ghara\u7745  sapa\u7789 a sa\u7745 thara\u7745 sa-chet\u299 ya\u7745  savaniyutam k\u257 ritam Uv\u257 sik\u257 ya Bodhi siriya apano bh\u257 tuno Budhi(\u7745 ) nakasa pitunocha se Gova-g\u257 ma-vathayasa Revata-gahapatisa m\u257 tuya chasa cha\u7745 damukhanasa kara\u7745 budhinasa Hagha\u7745 nasa bhaginiya cha Revatim nik\u257 ya bh\u257 tuput\u257 na\u7745  cha Mag\u257 -Chamdamukha-Ch\u363 la-Chamdamukhanam bhagineyanam cha Mah\u257 -mula-Chula-M\u363 l\u257 na\u7745  apano cha ayakasa M\u363 lav\u257 niyasa ay\u299 k\u257 ya Budhav\u257 niki (n\u257 ya) m\u257 tulaka (sacha)ko\u7789 h(a)karikasa Bhadasa Bodhisammasa Chamdasa Bodhidasamaha-matuya Bhadi(la)ya Bodhiya cha apano pituno Budhi(v\u257 )niyasa m(\u257 tuya)...\
3. bh\uc0\u257 tuno M\u363 iasa bhagin\u299 nam Budha\u7745 nik\u257 ya M\u363 la\u7745 nik\u257 ya N\u257 gabodhinik\u257 ya cha dh\u363 tuya V\u299 ramminikaya put\u257 na\u7745  N\u257 ga\u7745 nasa V\u299 ra\u7745 nasa cha su\u7745 nh\u257 na\u7745  cha Bhadasirimis\u299 nam evam eva cha Kulahavih\u257 re chetiya-ghara\u7745  s\u299 hala-vih\u257 re bodhi-rukha-p\u257 s\u257 do mah\u257 dhamma-gir\u299 ya\u7745  ovarako mah\u257 vi(h\u257 )re ma\u7745 \u7693 ava-kha\u7745 bho Devagiriyam padh\u257 nas\u257 lia puvasele ta\u7789 \u257 kam-a(la\u7745 )da-ma(\u7745 )\u7693 avo cha ka\u7745 taka sele mah\u257 chetiyasa puvadh\u257 re selama\u7745 davo Hirumu\u7789 huve ovraka timni 3 papilayam ovaraka sata 7 puphagiriya(\u7745 ) sela-ma\u7745 \u7693 avo Dha\u7745  ...vih\u257 re selama\u7745 \u7693 avo tam cha savam uvariva\u7745 \u7751 i (tam..\u7779 \u257 )dhu-vagasa achamta hita-sukhaya tha vitam sava (sa)chalokasa imam navokammam timhi navaka(m)mikehi k\u257 ritam chamdamukha-therena cha\
4. Dha\uc0\u7745 mana\u7745 di-therena cha N\u257 gatherena cha sela-va\u7693 h\u257 kisa vidhi-kasa ka\u7745 ma\u7745  ti\
_________________\
(DL - all comments fully identical with EI XX)\
L 1. (I would read mcha-dosasa-dapita. mara-Ed). The akshara 'tha' of Mathariputasa is partly preserved. After this words same five or six aksharas are lost. In the absence of any traces of 'i' strokes the missing word cannot have been' sire-virapurisadatala'. In all probability it was samvachharam, followed by a word expressing fourteenth' (choda\uc0\u7745  ?). Perhaps Bhada\u7745 ta-r\u257 chariy\u257 na\u7745 . The word which I read 'yavana-damila-palura' are not quite certain. The 'Dov' of Domila is still legible and the long-drawn top strokes of the remaining two aksharas have led me to the conjectural reading 'mila' the body of the akshara 'm' being partly preserved. The 'pa' of Palura is conjictural.\
L 2. The akshara 'sa' matuladasa is conjectural, as the word is followed by siveras personal names in the genetive case, are word expect 'matulakanam', but the akshara 'ka' shows no trace of an 'a' stroke.\
L. 3. Perhaps ' silamamda'\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS021 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 3 year 15\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 66, Pillar-inscription M 3..\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 106 (No 12) \
This inscription is evgraved on fragmentary pillar found at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
\
(L. 1) atichhi[tam-an\uc0\u257 gata-va\u7789 am\u257 nake] . . . . . . \
(L. 2) apano cha ubhaya-loka-hita-sukha-niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya \
(L. 3) mah\uc0\u257 vih\u257 re mah\u257 chetiya-p\u257 damule pavajit\u257 na\u7745  \
(L. 4) [n\uc0\u257 n\u257 ]desa-saman-\u257 gat\u257 na\u7745  mah\u257 bhikhu-sa\u7745 ghasa pa[rigahe] \
(L. 5) Siri-Virapurisadatasa vasasan\uc0\u257 ya sa\u7745 va 10 [*+] 5 v\u257  . . . . . . \
(L. 6) [Aparama]h\uc0\u257 vinaseliy\u257 na\u7745  parigahe sa-ch\u257 tu[s\u257 ]la \
(L. 7) . . . . . . [pa]ti\uc0\u7789 hapita[\u7745 ]ti\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. atichhi(ta\uc0\u7745 -an\u257 gata-va\u7789 am\u257 naka)...\
2. apano cha ubhava-loka-hiua-sukha-niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 a-than\u257 va\
3. mah\uc0\u257 vih\u257 re mah\u257 chet\u299 ya-p\u257 damule pavajit\u257 nam\
4. (n\uc0\u257 n\u257 )desa-saman\u257 gatar-na\u7745  mah\u257 bhikku-sa\u7745 ghasapa(rigahe)\
5. Siri-Virapurisadatasa vasasan\uc0\u257 ya samva 10 (+) 5 v\u257  ....\
6. (Aparama)h\uc0\u257 vinaseliy\u257 na\u7745  parigahe sa-ch\u257 tu (s\u257 )la\
7. ........ (pa)tit\uc0\u7717 apita(\u7745 ) ti\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS022 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 4 year 15\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 66, Pillar-inscription M 4..\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 107 (No 12A) \
This inscription is evgraved on fragmentary pillar found at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
\
(L. 1) [ni]yuta\uc0\u7745  ch\u257 tus\u257 la-parigahita . . . . . . \
(L. 2) [Si]ri-Virapurisadatasa sa\uc0\u7745 va 10 [*+] 5 v\u257  pa 8 [diva] . . . . . . \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. (ni)yuta\uc0\u7745  ch\u257 tus\u257 ala-parighita...\
2. (Si)ri-Virapurisakatasa sa\uc0\u7745 ya 10 (+) 5 v\u257 pa 8 (diva)...\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS023 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 5 year\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 66, Pillar-inscription M 5..\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 107 (No 12B) \
This inscription is evgraved on fragmentary pillar found at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
\
(L. 1) . . . . [Ka\uc0\u7745 dasirisa] . . . . . . \
(L. 2) . . . . [-m]\uc0\u257 t\u257  Ch\u257 \u7745 tisiri apa[\u7751 o j\u257 m\u257 tukasa]\
(L. 3) . . . [ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o M\u257 \u7789 haripu-]tasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  \
(L. 4) . . . [\uc0\u257 yu-]vadhan\u299 ke vijaya-vijayike \
(L. 5) . . . [hita-su]kha-niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya bhagavato \
(L. 6) . . . . . mah\uc0\u257 chetiya-p\u257 dam\u363 le . . . . . . \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. ...........(ka\uc0\u7745 dasirisa).........\
2. ...........(-m)\uc0\u257 ta ch\u257 \u7745 tisiri apa(\u7751 o j\u257 m\u257 tukasa)\
3. ...........(ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1omac\u7717 aripu-)tasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745 \
4. ...........(\uc0\u257 yu-)vadhn\u299 ke Vijaya-Vijayike\
5. ...........(hita-su)kha-niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 a than\u257 ya bhagavato\
6. ..........\uc0\u7745 ah\u257 chetiya-p\u257 damule\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS024 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription year 15 (R-13_13A)\
H. Sarkar, EI XXXVIII, Part-IV, pp. 175-76.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 107 (No 13+13A) \
This inscription is engraved on a broken pillar found in the monastic hall of chamtisiri at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
(Upper half of the inscription)\
\
1. ............\uc0\u7745 ah\u257 sen\u257 (pati) (pari)gah\u299 tasa\
2. .............(asme)dha-v\uc0\u257 jisa\
3. ............\uc0\u7779 ajasa-hala satasahasa.........\
4. .............(apati)hata-sa\uc0\u7745 kapasa V\u257 sit\u7717 ipu(tasa)\
5. .............(bha)gini ma(h\uc0\u257 sen\u257 patisa)\
\
(Lower half of the inscription)\
\
1. ...........................................(ka\uc0\u7745 dasirisa)\
2. .........................(-m)\uc0\u257 t\u257  ch\u257 \u7745 tisiri apa(no)\
3. ............(ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o M\u257 t\u7717 aripu)tasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745 ...........\
4. ............(\uc0\u257 yu-) vadhan\u299 ke vijaya-vejayike.............\
5. ............-na(\uc0\u7745 )\u257  n\u257 n\u257 dasa-samana (\u257 gat\u257 na\u7745 )..........\
6. ......apicha apano ubhayakulasa at(ichhita)...... mah\uc0\u257 -chetiya p\u257 dam\u363 le..........\
7. nikapan\uc0\u299 ke parin\u257 met unama.........\
8. ...parigaha savaniyuta\uc0\u7745  ch\u257 tus\u257 la-parigahitasa......\
9. pati\uc0\u7789 hapita\u7745  (Si)ri Virapurisadatasa sa\u7745 va 10 (+) 5 v\u257 pa 8 di..........\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS025 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription year (R-13B)\
H. Sarkar, EI XXXVIII, Part-IV, pp. 176_77.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 109 (No 13B) \
This inscription is engraved on a broken pillar found in the monastic hall of chamtisiri at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. .................................\uc0\u7745 a...............\
2. ..................................agiho(t\uc0\u257 )..........\
3. .........................(a)nekhira\uc0\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 i-go..........\
4. ..............................yi.....................\
5. .......................................................\
6. ..........\uc0\u7779 avathesuapat(\u299 hata-sa\u7745 kapasa)..............\
7. ...........Ikh\uc0\u257 kusa Siri Chamtam\u363 lasa sa (hodar\u257 ) (bhagi)ni\
8. ...........(ma)hatalavarasa Vasithiputa(sa) Ka(m)dasirisa\
9. ........(mah\uc0\u257 )talavari........Ch\u257 \u7745 tisiri apano............\
10. ........\uc0\u7745 \u257 t\u7717 a(riputasa) (Si)ri-Virapu(risadata)sa...........\
11. ...............(ve)jayike apicha apano..........\
12. (Si)ri Viraputrisadatasa.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS026 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription (R-13C)\
H. Sarkar, EI XXXVIII, Part-IV, pp. 177.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 110 (No 13C) \
This inscription is engraved on a pillar in two fragments found in the monastic hall of Chamtisiri, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. ..........................\
2. (mah\uc0\u257 cheti)ya p\u257 damule)pa(va)ji...............\
3. ..\uc0\u7779 ava s\u257 (dhun\u257 \u7745 ) mah\u257 (bhi)khu-sa\u7745 (ghasa)..........\
4. .\uc0\u7751 ikapani(ke) cha parin\u257 metuna..........\
5. .............................parigahe.................\
6. .............................Patit\uc0\u7717 api.................\
7. .............................v\uc0\u257 pa 8....................\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS027 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription (R-13D)\
H. Sarkar, EI XXXVIII, Part-IV, pp. 177.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 110 (No 13D) \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. ..............................\
2. ...........anek\uc0\u257 ni (ra\u7751 a-ko\u7789 i)...........\
3. ........................yi........................\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS028 Site-I_1 Apsidal Temple inscription E year 18\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p 22, Second Apsidal Temple inscription F.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 111 (No 14) \
This inscription is engraved on the floor of the first apsidal temple, immediately to the east of the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
\
(l. 1) Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato Budhasa chetiya-ghara mah\u257 rajasa Vir\u363 pakhapati-Mah\u257 -\u1092 sena-parigahitasa Agihot-[\u256 ]gi\u7789 homa-V\u257 japey-\u256 samedha-y\u257 jisa aneka-hirana-ko\u7789 i-go-satasahasa-hala-satasa[hasa*]-pad\u257 yisa savathesu apatihata-sa\u7745 kapasa V\u257 se\u7789 hiputasa Ikh\u257 kulasa Siri-Ch\u257 tam\u363 lasa sahodar[\u257 ]-bhagini mah\u257 talavarasa V\u257 se\u7789 hiputasa Pugiy\u257 na[\u7745 *] Kha\u7745 dasirisa bhariy[\u257 ] mah\u257 talavari Kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 naga-m[\u257 ]t\u257  Ch\u257 tisiri apano j\u257 m-[\u257 ]tukasa ra\'f1o M[\u257 ]\u7789 hariputasa Ikh[\u257 ]kuna\u7745  Siri-Virapurisadatasa ayu-vadhanike vejayike \
(l. 2) apano cha ubhaya-[loka-]hita-sukha-[niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya sa\u7745 ma-sa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 -]tu-parigahitasa mah\u257 chetiya-p\u257 dam\u363 le pavajit\u257 na\u7745  n\u257 n\u257 -desa-saman\u257 gat\u257 na\u7745  sava-s\u257 dh\u363 na\u7745  mah\u257 bhikhu-sa[\u7745 ]ghasa apa[no cha u-]bhaya-kulasa atichhita[m-]an\u257 gata-va\u7789 am\u257 nake nikapanike cha parin\u257 metuna\u7745  Aparamah\u257 vinaseliy[\u257 ]na\u7745  parigahe sava-niyuta[\u7745 ] ch\u257 tusala-parigahita\u7745  sela-ma\u7745 \u7789 ava[\u7745 ] pati\u7789 h[\u257 ]pita\u7745  ra\u7745 \'f1o Siri-Vira-purisadatasa sa\u7745 vachhara\u7745  a\u7789 h\u257 ra sa\u7745  10 [+*] 8 hema\u7745 ta-pakha\u7745  chha\u7789 ha\u7745  6 divasa\u7745  pa\u7745 chama\u7745  5 sava-sat\u257 na\u7745  hit[\u257 ]ya sukh\u257 ya hotu ti\
__________________________\
L. 1. (For Ikh\uc0\u257 kulasa) -probably Ikh\u257 ku-kulasa \
L. 2. The aksharas placed between square brackets are still partly traceable - the akshara h\uc0\u257  is written under the line; read: chatus\u257 la.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. Sidham namo bhagavato Budhasa chetivaghara mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa vir\u363 pakhapati-\
mah\uc0\u257 sena-pri gahitasa agihot-\u257 gi\u7789 homa-v\u257 japey-\u257 samedha v\u257 jisa aneka hira\u7751 a\
ko\uc0\u7789 i-go-sata sahasa hala satasahasa pad\u257 yisa savathesu apatihata samkapas\
Ikh\uc0\u257 kulasa Siri Ch\u257 tam\u363 lasa sodar\u257 bhagini mah\u257 talavarasa V\u257 sethiputasa\
p\uc0\u363 giy\u257 na\u7745  kha\u7745 dasirisa bhariy(\u257 ) mah\u257 talavari khamdasagaram\'f1aga-m\u257 t\u257  \
Ch\uc0\u257 tisiri apano j\u257 m\u257 tukasa ra\'f1o M\u257 thariputasa Ik\u257 kum\u7745  Siri Virapurisadatasa\
ayuvadhanike vejayike\
2. apano cha ubhaya(Ioka)hita-sukha-[niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya sa\u7745 ma-sa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257  ]tuparigahitasa mah\u257 chetiya p\u257 dam\u363 le pavajit\u257 na\u7745  n\u257 n\u257 desa saman\u257 gat\u257 a\u7745  savas\u257 dh\u363 na\u7745  mah\u257 bhikhu sa\u7745 ghasa apa(no cha u)bhaya-kulasa atichhita(m) an\u257 gata va\u7789 am\u257 nake nikapanike cha parin\u257 metuna\u7745  aparemah\u257 vinaseliy(\u257 )na\u7745  parigahe savaniyuta(\u7745 ) ch\u257 tusala-parigahitem selama\u7745 \u7789 ava(\u7745 ) patith(a)pitam ram\'f1o siri-Virapurisadatasa samvachharam a\u7789 h\u257 rasa\u7745  10 (+) 8 hema\u7751 ta-pakham\
chhatha\uc0\u7745  6 divasa\u7745  parichaman-5 sava-sat\u257 na\u7745  hit(a)ya sukh\u257 ya hotu ti.\
_________________\
L 1. Probably 'Ikhaku-kulasa', \
L 2. The aksharass placed between squarbrackets are still partly traceable. The adshara 'ha' is written under the line. Read charusala.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS029 Uppugundur inscription_year 19\
This inscription is engraved on lime-stone slab in the ruined structure of the stupa at Uppugunduru, in the Ongole taluk of Prakasam district.\
B.Ch. Chhabra, E.I. Vol. XXXIII, pp. 189-191\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 113 (No 15) \
\
TEXT(B.Ch.)\
\
1 Sidha\uc0\u7745  Om [|*] namo bhagavato sava-sat-otamasa Sa\u7745 m\u257 sa\u7745 budhas=eti [|*]\
2 mah\uc0\u257 [r]\u257 jasa M\u257 \u7693 har\u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  siri-V\u299 rapurisadatasa\
3 sa\uc0\u7745 vachhara\u7745  10 9 gimha-pakha\u7745  4 divasa\u7745  10 3 Dha\u7745 \'f1aka\u7693 a-vathavasa\
4 Sa\uc0\u7745 ghila-gahapatisa natukena Vaira-v\u257 niya-putena Sa[\u7745 ]ghilena\
5 mat\uc0\u257 ya Dha\u7745 mav\u257 nikin\u299 ya bh\u257 tuno cha N\u257 gila\u7745 nakasa bhagini-\
6 Budha\uc0\u7745 nik\u257 ya Samuda\u7745 nik\u257 ya bhariy\u257 ya S\u257 gara\u7745 nik\u257 ya bh\u257 tu-bha-\
7 riy\uc0\u257 ya Sa\u7745 ghanik\u257 ya b\u257 lak[\u257 ]na\u7745  cha Vairasirinakasa Cha\u7745 da . . \u7745 . .\u7745 . .\
8 kasa N\uc0\u257 gila\u7745 nakasa b\u257 lak\u257 na\u7745  cha Dhama\u7745 nik\u257 ya patu . . . . . . . . . . .\
9 k\uc0\u257 ya N\u257 gasa\u7745 ma\u7745 nik\u257 ya cha eva\u7745  sa-n\u257 ti-mita-ba\u7745 dha . . . . . . . . .\
10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [ya] pa\uc0\u7789 ane mah\u257  . . . . . . . . . . \
_____________________________\
L. 1. Om expressed by a symbol.(B.Ch.)\
L. 3. The form of the akshara meant to be mha is not regular.(B.Ch.)\
L. 10. Two medial i signs are seen here over the d\uc0\u257 maged letters; only the right side of the letter [ya] is visible.(B.Ch.)\
[For the symbol in line 1, which is a variant of one found in Ku\uc0\u7779 \u257 \u7751 a inscriptions, see Select Inscriptions, p. 150, note 3. In line 8, the word is b\u257 lik\u257 na\u7745  which is preceded by the list of Sa\u7751 g\u1088 ila's sons (cf. b\u257 lak\u257 na\u7745 . in line 7) and followed by that of his daughters. It is better to read bhagini[na\u7745 ] - Ed.]\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. sidha\uc0\u7745  om (1 *) namo bhagavato sava-sat-otamasa sa\u7745 m\u257 sambudhas-eti (1*)\
2. mah\uc0\u257 (r)\u257 rjasa M\u257 \u7693 har\u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri V\u299 apur\u299 sadatasa\
3. samvachhara\uc0\u7745  10 9 gimha pakha\u7745  4 divasa\u7745  10()3 Dha\u7745 naka\u7693 avathavasa\
4. Samghila-gahapatisa natukena Vaira-v\uc0\u257 niya-putena Sa\u7745 ghilena\
5. m\uc0\u257 t\u257 ya Dhammav\u257 \u7751 ikiniya bh\u257 tuno cha N\u257 gilamnakasa bhatubha-\
6. Budha\uc0\u7745 nik\u257 ya Samuda\u7745 \u7745 ic\u257 ya bhariyaya S\u257 gara\u7745 nik\u257 ya bh\u257 ti-bha-\
7. riy\uc0\u257 ya Sa\u7745 ghanik\u257 ya b\u257 lak(\u257 )na\u7745  cha Vairasirinakasa Chamda...\u7745 ...\u7745 \
8. kasa N\uc0\u257 gila\u7745 \u7751 akasa b\u257 lak\u257 na\u7745  cha Dhama\u7745  nik\u257 ya patu.......................\
9. k\uc0\u257 ya N\u257 hasa\u7745 ma\u7745 nik\u257 ya cha eva\u7745  sa-n\u257 ti-mita-ba\u7745 dha\
10.............. (ya) pa\uc0\u7789 ane mah\u257 ...................... \
____________________\
O\uc0\u7745  Expressed by symbol\
L 3. The form of the akshara meant to be 'mha' is not regular\
L 10. Two medial 'i' signs are seen here over the damaged letters. Only the right side of the letter is visible. For the symbol in line 1, which is a varient in one found in Kushana inscription, see Selected Inscriptions, p. 150, note 3. In line 8, the word is 'balikanent, which is preceded by the list of the Somghilas sons (of balikanam in line 7) and followed by that of \
(all notes = the same as in EI)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS030 Stupa No. 9_Site-9 Pillar inscription L year 20\
This inscription engraved on a line stone Pillar was found near stupa no. 9. at Nagarjunakonda;\
it contains 13 lines of writing coverinh an area of 14 1/2" x 13". Publications:\
	J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, no. 11, pp. 63\'9664, Inscription on carved pillar found near St\uc0\u363 pa No. 9.\
	D.C. Sircar, EI XXXV, no. 1, item 1. A, pp. 1\'964.\
	K. Raghunath 2001, p. 115 (No. 16).\
\

\b TEXT
\b0 \

\b (1)
\b0  sidha\uc0\u7745  \cf2 1\cf0  mah\uc0\u257 r\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 jasa \'b0asam\cf2 e\cf0 dhay\uc0\u257 jisa \'b0anekahira\cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 a\cf2 k(o)\uc0\u7789 i(pad\u257 )\cf0 yi\cf2 sa\cf0 \

\b (2)
\b0  sirica\uc0\u7745 tam\u363 lasa putasa ra\u7745 \'f1o m\u257 (\cf2 \uc0\u7693 ha\cf0 )riputasa \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 \cf2 ku\cf0 na siriv\cf2 i\cf0 rapurisadata(sa)\

\b (3)
\b0  vasasat(\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 )ya savachara(\uc0\u7745 ) vijaya(\u7745 ) v\u257 sapakha\u7745  prathama\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  1 divasa bitiya\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  sagagatasa\

\b (4)
\b0  ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o \'b0agi\cf2 ho\cf0 t\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 gi\uc0\u7789 h(o)mav\u257 japey\cf2 a\cf0 same\cf2 dhay\uc0\u257 \cf0 jisa hira\cf2 \uc0\u7751 \cf0 ak\cf2 o\cf0 \uc0\u7789 igosatasahasa-\

\b (5)
\b0  halasatasahasapad\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 yisa savathesu \'b0a(pa)tihatasa\uc0\u7745 kapasa v(\u257 s)i(\u7789 h)iputasa\

\b (6)
\b0  \'b0i(\cf2 kh\uc0\u257 \cf0 )\cf2 ku\cf0 sa s\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 misirica(\uc0\u7745 )tamulasa sa\cf2 (ho)dar\uc0\u257 \cf0 hi m\cf2 a\cf0 t\uc0\u257 hi ma(h\u257 )d(e)vihi \cf2 \'b0a\cf0 natasiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0 \

\b (7)
\b0  kha\uc0\u7745 dasiri\cf2 ya \'95\cf0  vijha\cf2 b(o)\cf0 dhisiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  mi\cf2 ta\cf0 (si)ri(ya) \cf2 \'95\cf0  samus\cf2 [i]\cf0 riya \cf2 \'95\cf0  n\uc0\u257 gavasusiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0 \

\b (8)
\b0  ma\uc0\u7745 \cf2 ga\cf0 siriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  kha\uc0\u7745 \cf2 d\cf0 ak\cf2 o\cf0 \uc0\u7789 isiriya (\cf2 \'95\cf0 ) mahisarasiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  kondamatisiriya (\cf2 \'95\cf0 ) mula\cf2 (s)iriya\cf0 \

\b (9)
\b0  \'b0a\cf2 ya\cf0 ko\uc0\u7789 usiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  ma\uc0\u7745 duvisiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  n\uc0\u257 gasiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  \cf2 r\uc0\u257 \cf0 masiriya \cf2 \'95 ga\cf0 lasiriya \cf2 (\'95)\cf0 \

\b (10)
\b0  \cf2 ve\cf0 lisiriya [\'95] (bo)dhisiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  khadasiri(ya) \cf2 \'95\cf0  satilasiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  \cf2 pe\cf0 rajatisiriya\

\b (11)
\b0  pa\uc0\u7745 \cf2 d\cf0 itasiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  sivan\uc0\u257 gasiriya (\cf2 \'95\cf0 ) samudasiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  \cf2 b\uc0\u257 \cf0 pisiriya \cf2 \'95\cf0  nadisiriya (\cf2 \'95\cf0 )\

\b (12)
\b0  \'b0ayasiriya ka\uc0\u7745 nhasiriya si(\cf2 van\uc0\u257 ga\cf0 )siriya \'b0abhatarik\uc0\u257 hi ca\

\b (13)
\b0  sarasik\uc0\u257 ya \cf2 (ku)\cf0 sumala\cf2 t\uc0\u257 ya\cf0  ca ch\uc0\u257 y\u257 thabho \cf2 \'97\cf0 \
____________________\
A number of punctuation signs appear, here represented as \'95. None of these was read by Vogel, only one (in line 9, before 
\i n\uc0\u257 gasiriya
\i0 ) observed in a note by Sircar \cb5 [see also his Introduction, p. 3]\cb1 . \cb5 Three probable cases of repetition of the same name.\cb1 \
L 1. 1] numeral/punctuation ignored by Sircar and Vogel.\
L 2. \cf2 \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 ku\cf0 na] Sircar; \cf2 \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 ku\cf0 na[\uc0\u7745 ] Vogel.\
L 3. vasasat\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 ya savachara(\uc0\u7745 ) vijaya(\u7745 )] Sircar; vasasanaya sa\u7745 vachara vi\u7745 saya[\u7745 ] Vogel. \'97 1] Sircar; numeral ignored by Vogel. \'97 bitiya(\u7745 )] Sircar; b\u299 tiya(\u7745 ) Vogel.\
L 4. ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o] Sircar; ra\'f1o Vogel.\
L 6. -mulasa] Sircar; -m\uc0\u363 lasa Vogel. \'97 sa\cf2 hadar\uc0\u257 \cf0 hi] saha(ho)dar\uc0\u257 hi Sircar; sahodar[\u257 ]hi Vogel. \'97 \'b0anatasiriya] Sircar; sun\u299 tisiriya? Vogel.\
L 7. vijhab(o)dhisiriya] vijhatavisiriya Vogel. \'97 mi\cf2 ta\cf0 (si)ri(ya)] Sircar; mi[sa]sir\uc0\u299 ya Vogel. \'97 samus\cf2 [i]\cf0 riya] Sircar Vogel; Sircar notes that the intended reading may be samudasir\uc0\u299 ya as in l. 11.\
L 8. ma\uc0\u7745 \cf2 ga\cf0 siriya] n\uc0\u257 gasiriya Vogel; ma\u7745 gusiriya Sircar. \'97 kondamati\'b0] Sircar; ro\u7789 umati\'b0 Vogel.\
L 9. \cf2 r\uc0\u257 \cf0 masiriya] [K\uc0\u257 ]masiriya Sircar, who admits that \'91The reading may also be 
\i R\uc0\u257 ma
\i0 \'b0 as in Vogel\'92s transcript\'92. \'97 \cf2 ga\cf0 lasiriya] golasiriya Vogel Sircar; both previous scholars, failing to observe the punctuation sign before this name, have read it as an 
\i e
\i0 -m\uc0\u257 tr\u257  and have then imagined presence of 
\i \uc0\u257 
\i0 -m\uc0\u257 tr\u257  to make 
\i go
\i0 . \cb3 Other possibility: read 
\i gela
\i0 \'b0, and take faint dot at bottom right of preceding ya as punctuation sign. Is there an anusv\uc0\u257 ra at end of \'b0siriya?\cb1 \
L 10. \cf2 (v/kh)e\cf0 lisiriya] velisiriya Vogel; khalisiriya Sircar. \'97 (bo)dhisiriya] Sircar; \'b0edhisiriya Vogel. \'97 satilasiriya] Sircar; satilisiriya Vogel. \cb5 Read setila\'b0 (*
\i \uc0\u347 vetila
\i0 )?\cb1   \'97 \cf2 pe\cf0 rajatisiriya] Sircar; parajatatisiriya Sircar.\
L 11. pa\uc0\u7745 \cf2 d\cf0 itasiriya] pa\uc0\u7745 \u7693 itasiriya Vogel Sircar.\cf7  Is any difference made between d and \uc0\u7693  in this text? \cf0 \'97\cf7  \cf0 b\uc0\u257 pisiriya] Sircar; bapisiriya Sircar.\cb5  
\i b\uc0\u257 pi
\i0  = 
\i v\uc0\u257 pi
\i0 ? If so, three names based on water bodies.\cb1 \
L 12. ka\uc0\u7745 nhasiriya] Sircar, who notes: \'91Read Kanha\'b0. Vogel read 
\i Ratusiriya
\i0 ; but the correct reading was suggested in an editorial note.\'92 \'97 \'b0abhatarik\uc0\u257 hi] Sircar; subhatarik\u257 hi Vogel.\
L 13. \cf2 (ku)\cf0 sumala\cf2 t\uc0\u257 ya\cf0 ] Vogel; bh\uc0\u363 (ku)sumalat\u257 ya Sircar (meaning that he reads 
\i bh\uc0\u363 
\i0  but corrects to 
\i ku
\i0 ). It seems impossible to read 
\i bh\uc0\u363 
\i0  and unnecessary to assume that anything else was intended than 
\i ku
\i0 , although the shape of the ak\uc0\u7779 ara is surprising. \'97 ca \cf2 ch\cf0 \uc0\u257 y\u257 thabho] Sircar; [\'b0i]ya[\u7745 ] tha[\u7745 ]bho Vogel. \'97 Regarding the end of the text, Sircar notes: \'91The punctuation is indicated by a slightly slanting horizontal line. The word 
\i th\uc0\u257 pito
\i0  is to be understood (cf. No. 3, line 7, below)\'92.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS031 Pillar inscription 1_year 20\
1882 Bh. Indraji, Notes Amar. St\uc0\u363 pa, p. 55 f., No. 1; 1882 Bu\u1092 hler, IA XI, p. 258 f., No. 2; 1887 Burgess-Bu\u1092 hler, Arch. Surv. South. Ind. Vol. I. p. 110 f., No. 2, and Plate LX\u299 ; l896 corr. by Franke, ZDMG L, p. 601; Luders list No 1204;\
\
- Fragment. With the exception of some details, identical with No. 1202. Note the spellings Mulasiri, Ka\uc0\u7745 nik\u257 , Nagasiri, \u257 v\u1077 sa\u7751 i by the side of \u257 v\u1077 sani, and the specification of \u7750 a\u7693 at\u363 ra as a village (g\u257 ma).\
- . . . putasa Ikh\uc0\u257 ku\u7751 a\u7745  Siriv\u299 ra-Purisadatasa sa[\u7745 vachhara 20] . . . . . divasa\u7745  10.\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 118 (No 17) \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. ...\uc0\u7693 ha\u7745  ra\'f1o m\u257 dhriputasa Ikha(kusa Si)r(i)viraputisa (da)tasa sa\u7745 vachhara(a) 20 v\u257 sapakha\u7745  8 divasa\u7745  10\
2. ....kathe Nadature vathavasa \uc0\u257 vesa\u7751 isa N\u257 kacha\u7745 dasa put(o) g\u257 me Mah\u257 ka\u7745 dur\u363 re vathavo-\
3. \uc0\u257 vesa\u7751 i s\u299 dh\u257 tho apanom\u257 tara\u7745  n\u257 gilant\u7745  purato k\u257 tuna\u7745  gharanim cha samudanimbalaka cha Mulasiri ba-\
4. likaramcha akabudhanikam bhatukam cha Budhinikam tosagharanim cha kanikam\
b\uc0\u257 laka cha N\u257 gasiri Cha\u7745 dasiri b\u257 lika\u7745  (cha)\
5. Sidh\uc0\u257 thanikam evam Natimitasam.. ivagenasabaga valagirivam bhagavato budhasa\
puvadh\uc0\u257 re \u257 ya-\
6. ka-kha\uc0\u7745 bhe 5 savaniyute apanodey\u257 ....\u7779 at\u257 na\u7745  hisudh\u257 ya patithapit\u257 ti\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS032 Pillar inscription 2_year 20\
1882 Bh. Indraji, Notes Amar. St\uc0\u363 pa, p. 55 f., No. 2; 1882 Bu\u1092 hler, IA XI, p. 258 f.. No. 1; 1887 Burgess-Bu\u1092 hler, Arch. Surv. South. Ind. Vol. I. p. 110 f., No. 1, and Plate LX\u299 ; 1896 corr. by Franke, ZDMG L, p. 601; Luders list No 1203;\
- With the exception of some details, identical with No. 1202 (No.2). Note the spellings av\uc0\u1077 sani, ayakakha\u7745 bha, and the non-mentioning of the Great Chaitya.\
- ra\'f1\uc0\u1086  M\u257 \u7693 hariputasa Ikh\u257 [kuna\u7745  Siri]vira-Purisadatasa sa\u7745 vachhara 20 v\u257 s\u257 pakha\u7745  8 divasa\u7745  10.\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 119 (No 17A) \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ......\uc0\u7771 \u299 putasa Ikh\u257 ku\u7751 \u257 \u7745  Sirivirapurisadatasa sa\u7745 va..\u7771 ....\
2. divasa\uc0\u7745  10 kammakatathe gome Na\u7693 ature vathavasa \u257 vesa\u7751 isa N\u257 kacha\u7745 dasa puto\
game Mah\uc0\u257 ka-\
3. r\uc0\u363 re vathava \u257 vesa\u7751 i sidhatho apancm\u257 tara\u7745  N\u257 gil\u257 ni\u7745  purato Katuno\u7745  gharani\u7745 \
cha Somud\uc0\u257 ni\
4. b\uc0\u257 laka\u7745  cha M\u363 lasiri\u7745  b\u257 lai...........\u7771 ani\u7745  cha Ka\u7745 \u7751 ika\u7745  b\u257 laka cha\
5. N\uc0\u257 gasiri Cha\u7745 dasiri B\u257 lida cha Sidh\u257 thanika\u7745  evam b\u257 laka cha Genasaha g\u257 me ve(la)iri\
6. Bhagavato budhasa mah\uc0\u257 chetiya puvadh\u257 re \u257 yaka-khambhe pa\u7745 cha 5 savaniyute apano dey\u257 -dha\u7745 ma\u7745 \
7. sava-sat\uc0\u257 na\u7745 hi to sukh\u257 ya patithapit\u257 ti.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS033 Pillar inscription 3_year 20\
1882 Bh. Indraji, Notes Amar. St\uc0\u363 pa, p. 55 f., No. 3; 1882 Bu\u1092 hler, IA XI, p. 259, No. 3; 1887 Burgess-Bu\u1092 hler, Arch. Surv. South. Ind. Vol. I. p. 110 f., No. 3, and Plate LXIII; 1896 corr. by Franke, ZDMG L, p. 601; Luders list No 1202;\
- Gift of five entrance pillars (\uc0\u257 yakakha\u7745 bha) at the eastern door (d\u257 ra) of the Great Chaitya (mah\u257 ch\u1077 tiya) of the holy (bhagavat) Budha (Buddha) in the village (g\u257 ma) of Velagiri, by the artisan (\u257 v\u1077 sani) Sidhatha (Siddh\u257 rtha), residing in the village (g\u257 ma) of Mah\u257 k\u257 \u7745 \u7693 ur\u363 ra, the son of the artisan (\u257 v\u1077 [sa*]ni) N\u257 kacha\u7745 da (N\u257 gachandra) residing in Na\u7693 at\u363 ra (or To\u7693 at\u363 ra ?) in the district (ra\u7789 ha) of Ka\u7745 m\u257 ka, together with his mother N\u257 gilan\u299  (N\u257 gil\u257 ), his wife Samudan\u299  (Samudr\u257 ), his son M\u363 lasiri (M\u363 la\u347 r\u299 ), his daughter N\u257 kabudhanik\u257  (N\u257 gabuddh\u257 ), his brother Budhinaka (Buddhi) and the wife of the same Kanik\u257  (K\u1088 i\u7779 \u7751 \u257 ) and their sons N\u257 gasiri (N\u257 ga\u347 r\u299 ) and Cha\u7745 dasiri (Chandra\u347 r\u299 ) and their daughter Sidhathanik\u257  (Siddh\u257 rth\u257 ).\
- ra\'f1\uc0\u1086  M\u257 \u7693 hariputasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Sirivira-Purisadatasa sa\u7745 vachhara 20 v\u257 s\u257 -pakha\u7745  8 divasa\u7745  10\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 120 (No 17B) \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  (!!*) ra\'f1o M\u257 \u7693 hariputasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri Virapurisadatasa sa\u7745 vachhara 20 v\u257 sapakha\u7745  8 divasa\u7745 \
2. 10 Ka(\uc0\u7745 )makarathe Na\u7693 ature \u257 vesanisa N\u257 kacha\u7745 dasa puto g\u257 me Mah\u257 ka\u7745 dur\u363 re \u257 vesani.\
3. sidhatho apano m\uc0\u257 taram Nagilani\u7745  purato katunam gharanim cha Samudanim baladam cha Mulasiri\u7745 \
4. b\uc0\u257 lika\u7745  cha N\u257 kabudhanika\u7745  bh\u257 tuka(\u7745 ) Budhinako\u7745 tasa gharani\u7745  cha Kanikam b\u257 laka cha N\u257 gasiri Cha\u7745 da-\
5. siri b\uc0\u257 likam ya S(i)dh\u257 thanika(\u7745 ) eva(\u7745 ) natimita sa\u7745 badhivagena saha game Velagiriyam bhagavato\
6. Budhase mah\uc0\u257 chetiye puvad\u257 re \u257 yaka-kha\u7745 bhe 5 savaniyute apano dey\u257 dha\u7745 ma\u7745  savasat\u257 na\u7745  hi-\
7. ta sukh\uc0\u257 ya patithapit\u257 ti\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS034 Site-I_Broken pillar inscription year 24\
Unpublished inscription supplied by the chief-Epigraphist, Govt. of India, Mysore.\
	hirt four I.A. Review 1967-68, p. 52.\
	K. Raghunath 2001, p. 121 (No 18) \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ..........asmedhay\uc0\u257 (ji)..........\
2. .........(ra)\uc0\u7751 ako\u7789 i\
3. .....(d\uc0\u257 )yis a Siri Cha\u7745 tam\u363 (la).............\
4. .........v\uc0\u257 sakativadantasa kamalaka.....\
5. ...\uc0\u7779 ala kosala patsaumayadhi-(siri)\
6. .....chhitas\uc0\u257 sanasa.........\
7. ....\uc0\u7779 iripavat\u257 dhipatisa Bapusa..............\
8. ....\uc0\u7735 adhapatapasa m\u257 \u7789 har\u299 putasa..........\
9. .....purisadatasa savachhara 20 (4).......\
10. ....\uc0\u7693 ivasa 7 th\u257 pit\u257  patim\u257 \
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS035 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 19\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 68, Pillar-inscription M 19\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 122 (No 18A) \
This inscription is engraved on a fragmentary pillar found in the monastic hall of Chamtisiri at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
Text\
\
(L. 1) . . . . . [Si]ri-Virapu[risadatasa] . . . .\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS036 Site 23 Fragmentary inscription on sculptured panel\
D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXV No. 7, p 19 (B \uc0\u299 )\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 123 (No 19) \
Fragmentary inscription on sculptured panel\
\
TEXT (Sircar)\
. . . . . . . . saha Vichayapure Maharaja-va\uc0\u7693 ham\u257 ne bha[\u7789 \u257 ] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [ti]\u7789 havita \
________________________________\
From impressions.\
The intended word may be bha\uc0\u7789 \u257 raka (Sanskrit bha\u7789 \u7789 \u257 raka); the word is apparently pati\u7789 havita.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1.....................\uc0\u7779 aha vichayapure mah\u257 r\u257 ja vadham\u257 ne bha(ta) ......\
2......................(ti)thavita \
_______________\
L 1. The intended word may be 'bhataraka' (skt. bhattaraka)\
L 2. The word is apparently 'patithavita' (in skt. it is Pratishthapita.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
37 Site 9 Fragmentary pillar inscription\
D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXV No. 7, p 20 (B III)\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 124 (No 20) \
\
TEXT\
Si[dha]\uc0\u7745  [||*] kumarasa Vira-Ar[ibha] . . . . . . . \
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS038 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 6\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 66, Pillar-inscription M 6\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 124 (No 21) \
This inscription is engraved on the pillar found in the monastic hall of Chamtisiri at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(L. 1) . . . . . . savathesu apat[ihata-sa\uc0\u7745 kapasa . . . ]\
(L. 2) . . . . . . Ikh\uc0\u257 kusa Siri-Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasa sa[hodar\u257  . . . ] \
(L. 3) . . . [ma]h\uc0\u257 talavarasa V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa . . . . . . \
(L. 4) . . . [mah\uc0\u257 ]talavari . . . . . . \
(L. 5) . . . . M\uc0\u257 \u7789 ha[r\u299 putasa] . . . . . . \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. .......\uc0\u7779 avathesu apati(hatasa\u7745 kapasa).....\
2. ........Ikh\uc0\u257 kusa siri cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasa sa(hodar\u257 .....)\
3. ........(ma)h\uc0\u257 talavarasa V\u257 sith\u299 putasa................\
4. ........(mag\uc0\u257 )talavarasa V\u257 sith\u299 putasa................\
5. .......\uc0\u7745 \u257 \u7789 ha(r\u299 putasa).....................\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS039 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 2\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 66, Pillar-inscription M 2\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 125 (No 22) \
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(L. 1) [Apatihata-sa\uc0\u7745 ]kapasa [V\u257 ]si[\u7789 h]\u299 puta[sa] P\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745 ] \
(L. 2) [Ka\uc0\u7745 da]sirisa bhariy\u257  Kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 naka-m\u257 t\u257  \
(L. 3) [Siri-V\uc0\u299 rapu]risadatasa \u257 yuvadhan\u299 ke vejayike cha \
(L. 4) . . . . . . atichhitam-an\uc0\u257 gata-va\u7789 am\u257 na[ke] n\u299 kapan\u299 ke cha \
(L. 5) [mah\uc0\u257 chetiya-p\u257 ]dam\u363 le Aparamah[\u257 ]vinase[li]y\u257 na\u7745  pari-[gahe] \
(L. 6). . . . . . [bhikhu]sa\uc0\u7745 ghasa pati\u7789 hapita\u7745  ti\
__________________\
L. 1. There are traces of another line before this. See above, Vol. XX, p. 10, line 4 of inscription C 3. -Ed.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. .... (apatihatasa\uc0\u7745 )kapasa (V\u257 )se(\u7789 h)iputa(sa) P\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745 \
2. ...(Ka\uc0\u7745 da)sirisa bhariy\u257  Ka\u7745 da S\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 aka m\u257 t\u257 \
3. (Siri-Virapu)risadatasa \uc0\u257 yuvadhanike vejayike cha\
4. .........attichhita\uc0\u7745 -an\u257 gata-va\u7789 am\u257 na(ke)nika panike cha\
5. (mah\uc0\u257 chatiya-p\u257 )dam\u363 le aparamah(\u257 )vinase(li) y\u257 na\u7745  pari(gahe).....\
6. ..............................(bhikhu) sa\uc0\u7745 ghasa patithapitamti\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS040 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 1\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 66, Pillar-inscription M 1\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 126 (No 23) \
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(L. 1) Mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa asamedha-y\u257 jisa \
(L. 2) aneka-hira\uc0\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-pad\u257 yisa Siri-Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasa \
(L. 3) sahodar\uc0\u257  bhagini mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa \
(L. 4) mah\uc0\u257 talavara-Vasi\u7789 h\u299 putasa P\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745  \
(L. 5) Ka\uc0\u7745 dasir\u299 sa bhari[y\u257 ] mah\u257 talavari Ch\u257 \u7745 tisiri \
(L. 6) [a]pa\uc0\u7751 o j\u257 m\u257 tukasa ra\u7745 \'f1o M\u257 \u7789 haripu[*ta]sa Ikh\u257 ku[na\u7745 ] \
(L. 7) [Siri]-Virapurisadatasa \uc0\u257 yuvadhanike veja[y]i[ke] \
(L. 8) [*apa\uc0\u7751 o] cha ubhaya-loka-hita-sukhani [*v\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya] . . . .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Mag\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa asamedha-y\u257 jisa.\
2. eneka hira\uc0\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-pak\u257 yisa Siri Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasa\
3. sahodar\uc0\u257  bhagini mah\u257 senapatisa\
4. mah\uc0\u257 talavara V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 putasa P\u363 kiy\u257 na\u7745 \
5. ka\uc0\u7745 dasirisa bhari(y\u257 ) mah\u257 talavari Ch\u257 \u7745 tisiri\
6. (a)pa\uc0\u7751 o J\u257 m\u257 tukasa ra\u7745 \'f1o M\u257 thar\u299 pu(ta)sa Ikh\u257 ku(na\u7745 )\
7. (Siri)-Virapurisadaiasa \uc0\u257 yuvadhanike veja(y)i(ke)\
8. (apa\uc0\u7751 o) cha ubhaya-loka-hita-sukh\u257 ni (v\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 ya)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS041 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 21\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 67, Pillar-inscription M 21\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 127 (No 24) \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ..............................................\
2. ............aneka-hi(ra\uc0\u7751 a-ko\u7789 i)..........\
3. ................yi......................\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS042 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 9\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 66. Pillar-inscription M 9\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 127 (No 24) \
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(L. 1) . . . . agihot-[\uc0\u257 ]gi\u7789 homa-v\u257 [japeya-] . . . . \
(L. 2) . . . . pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu . . . . \
(L. 3) . . . . [V\uc0\u257 ]si\u7789 h\u299 putasa Puki[y\u257 nam] . . . . \
(L. 4) . . . . Ikh\uc0\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri-Virapu[risadatasa] . . . . \
(L. 5) . . . . [a]pano ubhaya-kulasa . . . \
________________________________\
Trace of another line are discernible below this line. See line 11 of inscription C 3 above, Vol. XX, p. 16.-Ed. \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. .........agihot(\uc0\u257 )githoma-v\u257 (japeya).........\
2. ........pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu............\
3. ........(v\uc0\u257 )sith\u299 putasa puki(y\u257 na\u7745 )........\
4. ........Ikh\uc0\u257 kuna\u7745  Sirivirapu(risadatasa)....\
5. ........(a)pano ubhaya-kulasa........ \
_____________\
Traces of another line are discerniable below this line (No5) EI XX, ins. c3, p. 16. line 11;\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS043 Site-I_Monastic hall Pillar inscription M 17\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 67, Pillar-inscription M 17\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 128 (No 26) \
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(L. 1) . . . . [Siri-]Vira[purisadatasa] . . . . \
(L. 2) . . . . [ve]jayike api[cha] . . . .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. .................(Siri) Vira(purisadatasa)...........\
2. .................(ve)jayike api (cha)..............\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS044 Site-I_Stupa 5 Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G year 2\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p 23_4, Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G 1\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 129 (No 27) \
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(l. 1) [Si]dha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato teloka-dha\u7745 ma-dhur\u257 -vahasa mah\u257 r\u257 ja[sa Vir\u363 -] \
(l. 2) [pa]khapati-Mah\uc0\u257 sena-parigahitasa Agihot-\u256 gi\u7789 homa-[V\u257 jape-] \
(l. 3) y-\uc0\u256 samedha-y-[a]yi(ji)sa hira\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-go-satasaha[sa-hala-sata-] \
(l. 4) sahasa-pad\uc0\u257 i(yi)sa savathesu apatihata-sa\u7745 ka[pasa] . . \
(l. 5) [V\uc0\u257 ]se\u7789 hiputasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri-Ch\u257 tam\u363 lasa sun[h\u257 ]ya [mah\u257 r\u257 ja-] \
(l. 6) sa M\uc0\u257 \u7693 ha[ri]putasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri-V\u299 rapurisadatasa bhayaya ma-\
(l. 7) h\uc0\u257 rajasa Siri-E[huvu\u7735 a-]Ch\u257 tam\u363 lasa m\u257 tuya mah\u257 d[e]viya Bha\u7789 idev\u257 ya \
(l. 8) . . . . . . . [i]ma\uc0\u7745  vih\u257 ro sava-j\u257 ta-niyuto achariy[\u257 ]na\u7745  Bahusut\u299 y\u257 na\u7745  \
(l. 9) pati\uc0\u7789 h\u257 [pito] . . . . i ra pu na\u7745  budhi\u7751 a . . . . [sa\u7745 vachhara\u7745 ]. .[bitiya\u7745 ] \
(l. 10) [gimha-pakha\uc0\u7745 ] . . . . . . . . . . sugh\u257 ya ti \
___________________________\
The first half of the inscription has been restored with the aid of the corresponding passage in other inscriptions.\
L. 6. The second akshara (for M\uc0\u257 \u7693 ha[ri]putasa) may be either \u7693 a or \u7693 ha; this mutilated word can hardly be anything but bhay\u257 ya.\
L. 7. The aksharas -huvu\uc0\u7735 a are damaged owing to a crack, but hu is still legible.\
L. 8. Or should we read sava-jina-niyuto ? The akshara, following sava- is certainly j\uc0\u257 . In the other inscriptions we find savaniyuto.\
L. 9. [. . . . . . Virapuna\uc0\u7745 budhi\u7751 a . (proper name ?) ra\'f1o.\'97Ed.]\
L. 10. The date appears to have been followed by a benedictory formula such as sava-loka-hita-sukh\uc0\u257 ya.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. (si)dha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato teloka-dha\u7745 ma-dhur\u257 vahasa mah\u257 r\u257 ja (Vir\u363 )-\
2. (pa)khapati mah\uc0\u257 se\u7751 a-parigahitasa Agihot-\u256 gi\u7789 homa-(v\u257 jape)-\
3. y-\uc0\u256 samedha-y(\u257 )yi(ji) sa hira\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-go-satasaha(sa-hala-sata)\
4. sahasa-pad\uc0\u257 i(yi)sa savathesu apatihata-sa\u7745 ka(pasa)\
5. (y\uc0\u257 )sethiputasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri-Ch\u257 tamulasa su\u7751 (h\u257 )ya (mah\u257 r\u257 ja)\
6. sa M\uc0\u257 \u7693 ha(ri)putasa Ikh\u257 akuna\u7745  Siri Virapurisadatasa bhay\u257 ya ma-\
7. h\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa Siri-E(huvula) Ch\u257 tam\u363 lasa m\u257 tuya mah\u257 d(e)viya Eha\u7789 idev\u257 ya\
8. ...........(i)ma\uc0\u7745  vih\u257 ro sava-j\u257 ta-niyuto achariy(\u257 )nam bahusutiy\u257 na\u7745 \
9. patitha(pito)..............ira puna\uc0\u7745  budhina ..........(gi\u7745 vachhara\u7745 )....(bitiyam)\
10. (gi\uc0\u7745 ha-pakham)....................\u7779 ugh\u257 ya ti \
___________________\
L 6. The second akshara may be either 'da' or dha. This mutilated word can hardly be anything but 'bhayaya'\
L 7. The aksharas-'huvula' are damaged owing to a crack, but 'hu' is still legible.\
L 8. We should read 'sava-jina-nivuto' ? The akshara following 'sava-' is certainly 'ja', In the other inscriptions we find 'Savaniyuto'.\
L. 9. (...........'virapunambudhina' (proper name?) rano-Ed.)\
L 10. The date appears to have been followed by benedictory formula such as 'Sava-loka-hite-sukhaya'\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS045 Site-5 Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G 3 year 2\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 62, Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G 3\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 131 (No 28) \
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(L. 1) Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bha[gava]to \
(L. 2) Budhasa Mah\uc0\u257 rajasa Vir[\u363 ]pakhapati-Mah\u257 sena-\
(L. 3) [pa]rigahitasa agihot-[*\uc0\u257 ]gi\u7789 homa-v\u257 japey-[*\u257 ]samedha- \
(L. 4) y\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-go-sata-sahasa-ha- \
(L. 5) la-satasahasa-pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu apa- \
(L. 6) tihata-sa\uc0\u7745 kapasa V\u257 se\u7789 hiputasa Ikh\u257 kuna[\u7745 ] Si- \
(L. 7) ri-Cha\uc0\u7745 tamulasa su\u7751 h\u257 ya mah\u257 r\u257 jasa \
(L. 8) M\uc0\u257 \u7693 hariputasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri-Virapu- \
(L. 9) risadatasa bhay\uc0\u257 ya mah\u257 deviya Bha- \
(L. 10) \uc0\u7789 idev\u257 ya deyadhamo aya\u7745  Dev\u299 -vi- \
(L. 11) h\uc0\u257 r[o], sava-j\u257 taniyuto ajariy\u257 na\u7745  [Ba-] \
(L. 12) husutiy[*\uc0\u257 ]na[\u7745 ] pati\u7789 hapito Ra\'f1o Siri-Ehu- \
(L. 13) vu\uc0\u7735 a-Chatamulasa sa[\u7745 ]vachhara bitiya gimha-pakha \
(L. 14) [chha\uc0\u7789 ha\u7745 ] divasa\u7745  dasama\u7745 .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bha(gava)to\
2. Bidhasa Mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa Vir(\u363 )pakhapati-Mah\u257 sena-\
3. (pa)rigahitasa agihot (\uc0\u257 )gi\u7789 homa-v\u257 japey (\u257 )samedha-\
4. y\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-go-sata-sahasa-ha\
5. la-sata sahasa-pad\uc0\u257 yisa savathesu apa-\
6. tihata-sa\uc0\u7745 kapasa v\u257 sethiputasa Ikh\u257 kuna(\u7745 ) Si-\
7. ri Cha\uc0\u7745 tamulasa su\u7751 h\u257 ya mah\u257 r\u257 jasa\
8. M\uc0\u257 \u7693 hariputasa Ikhakuna\u7745  airi-Virapu-\
9. risadatasa bhay\uc0\u257 ya mah\u257 deviya bha-\
10. \uc0\u7789 idevaya deyadhamo aya\u7745  Dev\u299 -vi-\
11. h\uc0\u257 r(o) sava-j\u257 taniyuto ajariyanam (ba-)\
12. husutiy(\uc0\u257 )na(\u7745 ) patithapito ra\'f1o Siri-Ehu\
13. vula-Ch\uc0\u257 tamulasa sa(\u7745 )vachhara bitiya gi\u7745 ba-pakba\
14. (chhatha\uc0\u7745 ) divasa\u7745  dasama\u7745 \
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS046 Site-5 Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G 2 year 2\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XXI, p 62, Detached Ayaka pillar inscription G 3\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 133 (No 29) \
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar found at the side of Vihara No.4 and stupa\
No. 5 at Itikaralla-bodu at a distance of about two furlongs from the Mahachaitya at\
Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(L. 1) Siddham namo bhagavato Buddhasa Mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa \
(L. 2) Vir\uc0\u363 pakkhapatti-Mah\u257 sena-parigahitasa agihot-[*\u257 ]gi\u7789 homa-v\u257 jape- \
(L. 3) y-[*\uc0\u257 ]samedha-y\u257 jisa aneka-hira\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-go-sata-sahasa-hala-satasaha- \
(L. 4) [sa-pad\uc0\u257 yi]sa savathesu apatihata-sa\u7745 kappasa V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 puttasa Ikkh\u257 [kuna\u7745 ] \
(L. 5) Siri-Cha\uc0\u7745 tamulasa sunh\u257 ya mah\u257 rajasa M\u257 [\u7789 ha]r\u299 puttasa Siri-V\u299 rapuri-(L. 6) sadattasa bhayy\u257 ya mah\u257 dev\u299 ya [Bha\u7789 \u7789 idev\u257 ya] deyadha\u7745 ma ima\u7745  savaj\u257 taniyuto \
(L. 7) vih\uc0\u257 ro achariy\u257 na\u7745  Bahusutiy\u257 na[\u7745 ] pati\u7789 \u7789 hapito Ra\'f1o V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 puttasa Ikkh[\u257 ]k\u363 na\u7745  \
(L. 8) Siri-Ehuvula-Chatam\uc0\u363 lasa sa\u7745 vachhara\u7745  bitiya\u7745  gimha-pakkha\u7745  chha\u7789 ha\u7745  6 divasa\u7745  dasama\u7745  10.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. sidham namo bhagavato budhasa mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa\
2. Vir\uc0\u363 pakhapati-Mah\u257 sena-par\u299 gahitasa agihot-(\u257 )gi\u7789 homa-v\u257 jape-\
3. y(\uc0\u257 ) samedhay\u257 jisa aneka hira\u7745 na-ko\u7789 i-go-sata-sahaga hala-sata-sahasa-\
4. (pa\uc0\u7693 \u257 yi)sa savathesu apat\u299 hata samkapasa v\u257 i\u7789 hiputtasa Ikh\u257 (kuna\u7745 )\
5. Siri-Cha\uc0\u7745 tamulasa su\u7751 naya mah\u257 r\u257 jasa M\u257 (tha)riputtasa Siri-Virapuri-\
6. sadattasa bhayy\uc0\u257 ya Mah\u257 deviya (Bha\u7789 idev\u257 ya) dey\u257 dha\u7745 maima\u7745  savajit\u257 niyuto-\
7. vih\uc0\u257 ro achariv\u257 na\u7745  Bahusutiy\u257 na(\u7745 ) patithapito ra\'f1o V\u257 sith\u299 putasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745 \
8. Siri-Ehuvulachamtam\uc0\u363 lasa samyachhara bitiya\u7745  gi\u7745 ha pakha\u7745  chhatham 6 divasa\u7745  dasama\u7745  10\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS047 Site-9 Stupa 9 Broken pillar inscription year 8\
D.C. Sircar - EI, V. XXXV No. 2. A, p 8\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 135 (No 30) \
This inscription is engraved on a broken pillar found in the mandapa in site no. 9 (A. H.\
Longhurst's stupa No. 9.) at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (D.C. Sircar)\
1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . s[i]r[i]-V\uc0\u299 rapurasa[data]sa . . . . . . . . . . . \
2 . . . . . . ra\'f1o V\uc0\u257 se\u7789 hi-puta[sa] [I]kh\u257  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
3 Ehuvu\uc0\u7735 a-Ch\u257 ntam\u363 lasa savachhara . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
4 [ma] gimha-pakha chavu\uc0\u7789 ha divasa pa . . . . . . . . . .\
5 [pa]vate Vijayapure Aparama[h\uc0\u257 vina] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
6 y\uc0\u257 n\u257  mah\u257 -nig\u257 ye Se\u7789 hivara-va\u7693 ham[\u257 ne] . . . . . . . . . . . .\
7 . . . . . . sikasa Ariya-sa\uc0\u7745 gha[sa] se . . . . . . \
8 [\uc0\u7693 a]va padi\u7789 hapeti bhara-[sa]la\u7745  niva[na] . . . . . .\
9 v[e]ti Budha-Dha\uc0\u7745 ma-Sa\u7745 gha-[ma]gala . . . \
10 . . . vara-g\uc0\u299 rivara-ne[gama] . . . . . .\
11 . . . bahu-[de]yadhama-k\uc0\u257 raka\
12 [u]ph\uc0\u257 (p\u257 )sako Cha[da]sir\u299  cha [N\u257 ] . . .\
13 . . . piya-bh\uc0\u257 tuk[o] ra\'f1o \u257 [yu] . . . . . . .\
14 . . . apana m\uc0\u257 t\u257 -pituno . . . . . .\
15 . . . riyake nimitta s\uc0\u257 l\u257  . . . . . . . . .\
16 . . . purat[o] [k\uc0\u257 ]r\u257 pit\u257  . . . . . . . . .\
17 . . . [mane] sukh-athan\uc0\u257 ya . . . . . . . . .\
___________________________________________\
From impressions.\
L. 1. The damaged aksharas appear to be sidha\uc0\u7745  ra\'f1o.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 2. The word lost at the end of line 1 and the beginning of line 2 is putasa; the lost aksharas at the end of line are -k\uc0\u363 na\u7745  siri- as suggested by B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 3. The lost aksharas are a\uc0\u7789 ha-, as suggested by B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 4. The lost aksharas are -darasa Siri- as suggested by B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 5. The lost aksharas are -seli- as suggested by B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 7. The damaged aksharas at the beginning of the line look like Udini-; the lost aksharas at the end of line are -la-ma-.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 8. The intended reading (for bhara-) seems to be bha\uc0\u7693 \u257 ra- or bha\u7745 \u7693 \u257 ra-; the lost aksharas are -ya ni\u7789 ha-.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 10 The word lost at the end of line 9 and at the beginning of line 10 is nagara as suggested by B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 11. The word lost at the end of line 10 and the beginning of line 11 is vara as suggested by B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 13. The aksharas lost at the end of line 12 and the beginning of line 13 are -gasiri as suggested by B; the word lost here at the end of line is vadhanike as suggested by B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 14. The word p\uc0\u363 j\u257  (probably p\u363 j\u257 ye, 'for honouring') occurs here in B.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 15. B suggests that the akshara lost here is bha.(D.C. Sircar)\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ................ S(i)r(i) Virapurisa(data)sa.....\
2. ................ ra\'f1o V\uc0\u257 sethiputasa (I)kha......... \
3. Ehuvula-chamtam\uc0\u363 lasa savachhara............. \
4. (ma) gi\uc0\u7745 ha-pakha chavutha diva sa pa......... \
5. (pa)vate vijayapure Aparamah\uc0\u257 vina)............ \
6. y\uc0\u257 n\u257  mah\u257 -nig\u257 ye sethivara-va\u7693 ham(\u257 ne)........\
7. ......... sikasa Ariya-sa\uc0\u7745 gha(sa) se.................. \
8. (\uc0\u7693 a)va padithapeti bhara (sa)lam niva(na)...... \
9. v(e)ti Budha-Dhamma-samgha-(ma)gala..........\
10. ......... vara-girivara-na(gama)\
11. .......... bahu-(de)yadha\uc0\u7745 a-k\u257 r\u257 ka\
12. (u)ph\uc0\u257 (p\u257 )sako Cha(da)siri cha (na).............\
13. ........ piya. bhatud(o) ra\'f1o a(yu)........ \
14. ........ apano m\uc0\u257 t\u257 -pituno................. \
15. ........ riake nimitta s\uc0\u257 l\u257 ........................\
16. .............purt(o)(k\uc0\u257 )rapit\u257 \
17. ...........(mana) sukhathan\uc0\u257 ya......................\
___________________________\
L 1. The damaged aksharas apper to be 'Sidham rano'\
L 2. The word lout at the end of line I and the beginning of line 2 is 'putase'. The lost aksharas are 'Kunam siri'\
L 3. The lost aksharas are 'atha'\
L 4. The lost aksharas are 'darasa siri'\
L 5. The lost aksharas are 'seli'\
L 7. The damaged aksharas at the beginning of the line look like ' Udini'. The lost aksharas are 'la-ma'\
L 8. The intended reading seems to be 'bhadara or bhamdara'. The lost aksharas are 'yanitha'\
L 10. The word lost at the end of the line 9, and at the beginning of line 10 is 'Nagara'\
L 11. The word lost at the end of line 10 and the beginning of line 11 is 'vara'.\
L 13. The aksharas loat at the end of the line 12 and the beginning of line 13 are 'gasiri'. The word lost is vadhanikc.\
L 14. The word 'puja' (probably 'pujayc' for honouring).\
L 15. That the aksharasa lost here is 'bha'\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS048 Site-9 Stupa 9 Broken pillar inscription year 8\
A. R. Ep., 1958-69, No. B 84; D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXV No. 2. B, p 9. \
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 138 (No 31) \
This inscription is engraved on a broken pillar found in the mandapa in site No. 9, at\
Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (D.C. Sircar)\
1 Sidha | mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa asamedha-y\u257 ji-\
2 sa a[ne]ka-hira\uc0\u7751 a-ko[\u7789 ]i-pad\u257 yisa siri-Cha\u7745 [taJmu-\
3 lasa p[u]tasa mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa siri-[V\u299 ]ra[pu]-\
4 risadattasa putasa ra\'f1o V\uc0\u257 se\u7789 h\u299 -putasa Ikh\u257 -\
5 [ku]na siri-[E]havu[la]-Chantam\uc0\u363 lasa sava[chha]ra a\u7789 hama gi-\
6 mha-pakha chavuth\uc0\u257  divasa padarasa Siripavate\
7 Vijayapure Aparamah\uc0\u257 vinas[e]liy\u257 na\u7745  ma[ha]-\
8 [vina]seliy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  mah\u257 -nig\u257 ye Se\u7789 hivara-va\u7693 ham\u257 ne \
9 . . . . . . . . kasa Ariya-saghasa sela-[ma\uc0\u7693 ava]-\
10 [vathavana] therana s\uc0\u257 l\u257  niva\u7751 aya [na]\u7789 ha[.]ti [Budha]-Dhama . . . .\
11 . . . . magala-nagaravara-girivara-naigama[vara]-bahu-deya . . . . .\
12 . . . karako up\uc0\u257 sako Chadasir\u299  cha N\u257 gasiri . . . . . .\
13 . . . ko ra\'f1o \uc0\u257 yu-vadhanika kata . . .\
14 . . . a[pano] m\uc0\u257 t\u257 -pituno p\u363 j\u257  . . . . . .\
15 . . . [na]puta bhariyako ni[mi]tta sa . . . . . . \
16 . . . . . . ma-bh\uc0\u257 ga\u7745  pura\u7745  d\u257 t\u257  apa . . . . . . .\
17 . . . . . . . . . neva . . . . . . gama[ne] sukh-athanaya . . . . . .\
_________________________________\
L. 5. The letter [la] is written slightly above the line.\
L. 8. The aksharas ma[ha]vinaseliy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  are redundant.\
L. 10. The intended word (for [na]\uc0\u7789 ha[.]ti) seems to be ni\u7789 haveti, 'completes'.\
L. 11. The word lost at the end of line 10 and the beginning of line 11 is Sagha (Sa\uc0\u7751 gha) as suggested by A.\
L. 12. The word lost between deya and karako is dha\uc0\u7745 ma as suggested by A.\
L. 13. The expression partially lost at the end of line 12 and the beginning of line 13 is piya-bh\uc0\u257 tuko as suggested by A.\
L. 16. It is difficult to say whether the intended expression is pa\uc0\u7789 hama-bh\u257 ga\u7745 .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. sidha\uc0\u7745 : mah\u257 r\u257 jasa asamedhay\u257 ji-\
2. sa a(ne)ka-hirana-ko(\uc0\u7789 )\u299 pad\u257 yisa Siri Ch\u257 \u7745 (ta)m\u363 -\
3. lasa p(u)tasa mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa Siri (Vi)ra(pu)-\
4. risadatasa putasa ra\'f1o Vase\uc0\u7789 hiputasa Ikh\u257 -\
5. (ku)na Siti-(E)havu(la) Cha\uc0\u7745 tam\u363 lasa sava(chha)ra a\u7789 hama gi-\
6. maha-pakha chavuth\uc0\u257 divasa pad\u257 rasa siripavate-\
7. vijayapure aparamah\uc0\u257 vinas(e)liy\u257 nam ma(h\u257 )-\
8. (vina)saliy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  maha-nig\u257 ye Sethivara-Vadham\u257 ne\
9. .....kasa ariya sagasa s\uc0\u257 la (ma\u7693 ava)\
10. (vathavana) therana s\uc0\u257 la niv\u257 \u7751 aya (na)tha()ti (Eudha)-Dhama.......\
11. ...... magala-nagaravara-girivara-nainma(vara)-bahudey\uc0\u257 .....\
12. .....karako up\uc0\u257 sako chadasiri cha n\u257 ga sri.............\
13. .......ko ra\'f1o \uc0\u257 yu-vadhanika data........\
14. .........a(pano) m\uc0\u257 t\u257 -pituno puja...........\
15. ...........(na) puta bhariyako ni(mi)ttasa......\
16. ..........\uc0\u7745 a-bh\u257 ga\u7745  pura\u7745  d\u257 t\u257  apa.........\
17. ...........\uc0\u7751 eva..............game (ne)sudh\u257 thanaya..........\
__________________\
L 5. The letter is written slightly above the line.\
L 8. The aksharas 'ma (ha) vinaseliyanam' are redundant.\
L 10. The intendent word seems to be nithaveti* completes.\
L 11. The word lost at the end of the line 10 and the beginning of the line 11 is 'sagha (samgha) as suggested by.\
L 12. The word lost between 'deya' and 'Karako' is 'dhamma' .\
L 13. The expression partialiy lost at the end of line 12 and the beginning of line 13 is 'piya-bhatuko\
L 16. It is difficult to say whether the intended expression is 'pathama-bhagam'.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS049 Alluru pillar inscription year 8\
P.R. Srinivasan, EI XXXIX, pp. 9-10.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 140 (No 32) \
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar at Alluru.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. Sipam (!!) Helura-vathavena g\uc0\u257 mikena\
2. Venhusirino apano bhay\uc0\u257 ya cha\u7745 d\u257 ya\
3. Blakasana.... .....Jakhagiriya\
4. N\uc0\u257 gasirikya.............\u7779 a sachatig\u257 \
5. mite se\uc0\u7745 badhi bam(dhava) jama, me(ta) pumnopa\
6. chaya samp\uc0\u257 dane..........\u7735 oka-sa\u7745 p\u257 ddane loka-samtarano\
7. Dhammanayoelakha\uc0\u7745 bho..... \u7771 \u257 ge.........\u7771 age patitha-\
8. pito ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o (Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745 ) Siri Ehavalacham\
9. tamulasa samvachhara 8 gipa 5 diva 10\
10. \uc0\u257 chariy\u257 na\u7745  (avan\u257 )gasela Sikhara\u7745 gav\u257 si-\
11. na\uc0\u7745  vasi Chamdanakase........\u7771 a Talaparim\u257 -\
12. jakanam ar\uc0\u299 ya wa\u7745 gha (sa punaye) (!!*).\
_____________________\
L 1. Read Sidham\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS050 Site 99 Dartideya Swami temple inscription, year 11\
B. Ch. Chhabra - El, XXXIII, No. 27, p 149\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 142 (No 33) \
This inscription is engraved on several fragments of stones containing six or seven verdons of one and the record, found in the Darttideya Swami temple site at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (B. Chhabra)\
[Metres: verse 1 Anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh, verse 2 Sragdhar\u257 .]\
\
1 Siddham | Var\uc0\u7779 a \u1077 k\u257 da\u347 \u1077  r\u257 j\'f1ax-prabh\u1086 r=\u1045 havala\u347 riya\u7717  [|*]\
2 \uc0\u347 ukla-pak\u7779 asya M\u257 ghasya pu\u7751 ya \u1077 k\u257 da\u347 \u1077 -hani [|| 1*]\
3 D\uc0\u1077 v\u1077  yasy=\u257 tibhaktir=Hutavaha-tanay\u1077  cha\u7751 \u7693 a-\u347 aktau Kum\u257 r\u1077 \
4 pautras=s\uc0\u1077 n\u257 pat\u1077 r=yyas=samara-vijayina\u1067  =kkhy\u257 ta-k\u299 rtt\u1077 r=A\u7751 ikk\u1077 \u7717  [|*]\
5 pr\uc0\u257 s\u257 da\u7751 =G\u257 \u7751 \u7693 i-puttras=sa talavara-vara\u1067  =K\u257 rttik\u1077 ya-ppras\u257 d\u257 t 9\
6 \uc0\u1045 li\u347 r\u299 \u347 -\u347 r\u299 -vi\u347 \u257 la\u7745  \u347 ubha-matir-akar\u1086 t=Sarvvad\u1077 v-\u257 dhiv\u257 sam |[| 2*]\
________________\
L. 5. Sandhi has not been observed here.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. sidha\uc0\u7745  var\u7779  ek\u257 da\u347 e raj\'f1ah=prabhor=Ehavala\u347 riya\u7717 (:)\
2. \uc0\u347 ukla-pak\u7779 asya m\u257 ghasya punya ek\u257 da\u347 e=hani (!!! 1)\
3. Deveyasy-\uc0\u257 tibhaktir=butavaha-tanaye cha\u7751 \u7693 a-\u347 aktau kum\u257 re\
4. pautras=sen\uc0\u257 pater=yyas=samara-Vijayinah=kkhy\u257 ta\\d\u299 rtter=A\u7751 ikke\u7717  (!)\
5. Pr\uc0\u257 s\u257 da\u7751 =g\u257 \u7751 \u7693 i-puttras=sa talavara-vara\u7717 =k\u257 ttikeya-ppr\u257 s\u257 d\u257 t \
6. Elisr\uc0\u299 \u347 =\u347 r\u299 -vi\u347 \u257 la\u7745  subha-matir=akarot=sarvvadev-\u257 dhiv\u257 sa\u7745  ! (! 2 *)\
____________\
L 5. The sandhi has not been observed here.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS051 Site 7_8 Detached pillar inscription H, year 11\
This inscription is engraved on a stone pillar found at Ko\uc0\u7789 \u7789 a\u7745 palugu, to the North of Nagarjunakonda. \
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 24, Detached Pillar inscription H;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 144 (no 34);\
estampage Leiden N11.\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(l. 1) Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato sam\u257 -sa\u7745 - \
(l. 2) budhasa mah\uc0\u257 rajasa V\u257 se\u7789 hiputasa \
(l. 3) Ikh\uc0\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri-Ehuvala-[Ch\u257 ta]m\u363 lasa sava 10 [+*]1 \
(l. 4) . . . . 1 diva 7 mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa Agihot-\u256 gidhema-V\u257 javeja\
(l. 5) Asamedha-y\uc0\u257 yi(ji)sa [aneka-]hira\u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-go-satasahasa- \
(l. 6) hala-satasahasa-pad[\uc0\u257 ]y[i]sa savathesu apatihata- \
(l. 7) sa\uc0\u7745 kapasa V\u257 se\u7789 hiputasa Ikh\u257 kuna[\u7745 ] Siri-Ch[\u257 ]tam\u363 la[sa] \
(l. 8) nattiya mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa M\u257 \u7789 hariputasa Siri-Virapurisa- \
(l. 9) datasa dh\uc0\u363 tuya mah\u257 r\u257 jasa V\u257 se\u7789 hiputasa Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  \
(l. 10) Siri-Ehuvala-Ch[\uc0\u257 ]tam\u363 la[sa] bhaginiy\u257  V\u257 nav\u257 saka-mah\u257 r\u257 ja- \
(l. 11) mah\uc0\u257 deviya [Ko]da[ba]lisiriya ima\u7745  khaniya\u7745  vih\u257 ro cha \
(l. 12) achariy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  Mahi[s\u257 ]sak\u257 na\u7745  suparigahe ch\u257 tudisa\u7745  \
(l. 13) sa[\uc0\u7745 ]gha\u7745  udis\u257 ya sava-sat\u257 na\u7745  hita-sukh[\u257 ]tha\u7745  \u7789 h\u257 pita\u7745  achariye- \
(l. 14) na mah\uc0\u257 dha\u7745 ma-k\u257 thik[e]na Dha\u7745 ma[gho]sa-therena anuthita\u7745  ti\
________________________________\
L. 9. Read Agihot-Agi\uc0\u7789 homa-V\u257 japeya.\
L. 12. The third syllable sa in Mahi[s\uc0\u257 ]sak\u257 na\u7745  is still traceable.\
L. 14. The third akshara (in Dha\uc0\u7745 ma[gho]sa-) has become very faint. At first I felt inclined to read Dha\u7745 mayasa, but the long horizontal base-stroke which is still clear rather suggests the letter gha.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS052 Site 61 Pillar inscription, year 13\
A. R. Ep., 1958-59, No. B 79; D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXV No. 3. \
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 146 (No 35) \
This inscription is engraved in a pillar found in an area to the north of the 16 pillered\
mandapa in Section IV of site no. 61 at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (D.C. Sircar)\
1 Sidham | s\uc0\u257 misa r\u257 [\'f1o] V\u257 se[\u7789 hipu]tasa Ikh\u257 kusa\
2 siri-Ehavula-[Cha]tam\uc0\u363 lasa savachhara ta(te)rasa[ma]\
3 g\uc0\u299 m[h]a\u7751 na\u7745  pakha pa\u7745 chama 5 divasa satama 7 ra[\'f1o]\
4 [M\uc0\u257 ]\u7693 hari-p\u363 tasa Ikh\u257 ku\u7751 a[\u7745 ] sa(si)ri-Virap\u363 rusadatasa\
5 mahisija(ya) Mahavalabh\uc0\u299 k\u257 ya Yakh\u299 linik\u257 ya pu-\
6 tasa mah\uc0\u257 senapatisa kum[\u257 ]rasa El\u299 -Ehav[\u363 ]-\
7 lad\uc0\u257 sa\u7745 nakasa chhaya-tha[\u7745 ]bh[o] th\u257 pito |\
\
______________________________\
From impressions.\
L. 5. Probably we should not take it as mahisi-Jamaha-.\
L. 7. The punctuation is indicated by a curved stroke preceded by visarga-like sign.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\'f1 !! s\uc0\u257 misa r\u257 (\'f1o) Vase(thipu)tasa Ikh\u257 kusa\
2. Siri-Ehuvula-(Cha)tanulasa savachhara ta(te) rasa(ma)\
3. giv(h)\uc0\u257 na\u7745  pakha pa\u7745 chama 5 divasastama 7 ra(\'f1o)\u7789 \u257 \
4. (M\uc0\u257 )\u7693 hari-putasa Ikh\u257 kuna(\u7745 ) sa (Si)ri-Virapurusadata sa\
5. mahisij\uc0\u257 (ya) Mah\u7745 valabhi k\u257 ya yakh\u299 linidaya pu-\
6. tasa mah\uc0\u257 senaptisa kum(\u257 )rasa Eli-Ehav(\u363 )\
7. lad\uc0\u257 sa\u7745 mslsds chhayatha(m) bh(o)th\u257 pito ! \
_______________\
L 7. It should be read as 'dasam takyasa: standing 'dasam dadshasya, i.e., efficient in the service of the king (Eli) Ehuvala. The punctuation is indicated by a curved stroke proceeded by a visarga lide sign\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS053 Site 34 Pillar inscription, year 16\
D.C. Sircar, EI XXXIV No. 3, p 19-20\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 148 (No 36) \
This inscription is engraved on a four faced pillar found in the Pushpabhadrasvamin\
Temple site at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (D.C. Sircar)\
\
1 Siddha\uc0\u7745 (ddham) || Narno bhagavate Mah\u257 devasya Puppa(\u7779 pa)bhaddrasv\u257 mina\u7717  [|*] Mah\u257 r\u257 jasya V\u257 si\u7779 \u7789 h\u299 -p\u363 ttrasya\
2 \uc0\u347 ry-Ehavala-Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasya sa\u7745 va 10 6 gi pa 2 diva 5 [|*] r\u257 j\'f1o V\u257 si\u7779 \u7789 h\u299 putrasya agni\u7779 \u7789 oma-\
3 v\uc0\u257 jave(pe)y-\u257 \u347 vamedha-bahusuvar\u7751 \u7751 aka-y\u257 jina\u7717  naika-hira\u7745 \u7751 ya-ko\u7789 i-prad\u257 tu\u7717  go-\u347 atasahasra-hala-\u347 atasahasra-prad\u257 tu[\u7717 ]\
4 sva-v\uc0\u299 ryy-\u257 rjjita-vijaya-k\u299 rtte\u7717  Ik\u7779 v\u257 k\u363 \u7751 \u257 \u7745  \u347 r\u299 -Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasya prapautren\u257 (\u7751 a) mah\u257 r\u257 jya(ja)sya M\u257 \u7789 har\u299 puttrasya Ik\u7779 v\u257 k\u363 n\u257 \u7745 (\u7751 \u257 \u7745 ) \u347 r\u299 -V\u299 rapuru\u7779 adattasya\
5 pauttre\uc0\u7751 a mah\u257 r\u257 jasya Sagara-Dil\u299 p-\u256 \u7745 bar\u299 \u7779 a-Yudhi\u7779 \u7789 hira-[t]ulya-dharmma-vijayasya R\u257 masy=eva sarvva-jan-\u257 bhir\u257 masya Ik\u7779 v\u257 k\u363 n\u257 \u7745 (\u7751 \u257 \u7745 )\
6 \uc0\u347 ry-\u298 (\u347 ry-E)havala-Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasya puttre\u7751 a Pu\u7779 yaka\u7745 d\u299 y\u257 n\u257 m mah\u257 talavarasya Ska\u7745 dagopasya naptry\u257 \u7717  mah\u257 talavarasya\
7 Kha\uc0\u7745 dah\u257 lasya duhitu\u7717  Sesebam\u257 g\u363 ruka-dauhitry\u257 \u7717  Utara-mah\u257 talavara-bh\u257 gineyy\u257 \u7717  r\u257 j\'f1a\u7717  \u347 ry-Ehavala-Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasya\
8 mahi\uc0\u7779 y\u257 \u7717  mah\u257 devy\u257 \u7717  Kupa\u7751 a\u347 ry\u257 \u7717 (\u347 riy\u257 \u7717 ) puttre\u7751 a mahar\u257 jakum\u257 re[\u7751 a] mah\u257 sen\u257 patin\u257  H\u257 rit\u299 putre\u7751 a Ik\u7779 v\u257 k\u363 \u7751 \u257 \u7745 \
9 \uc0\u347 r\u299 -V\u299 rapuru\u7779 adattena mah\u257 r\u257 jasya mah\u257 devy\u257  gottrasya cha [v]ijaya-vaijayike \u257 yur-vvarddhane dvayor=api cha m\u257 t\u257 -putrayo[\u7717 *]\
10 dharmma-phala\uc0\u7745  bhagavato(ta\u7717 ) Pu\u7779 pabhadrasv\u257 mina\u7717  devakula\u7745  k\u257 rita\u7745  dhvaja-sta\u7745 ba(bha)\u347 =cha prati\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pita\u7717  gr\u257 ma\u347 =cha Pu\u7693 oke\u7693 a\u7745 (\u7693 am) ak\u7779 aya-ni(n\u299 )vi\
11 datta\uc0\u7717  [||*]\
12 \uc0\u347 r\u299 -Ka[\u7745 ]kaphala[\u7717 *] Ka\u7745 kacha\u7745 dra\u347 =cha bho 2 (?)\
_________________________________\
From impressions.\
L. 1. The double da\uc0\u7751 \u7693 a is followed by a slanting curved stroke; read Mah\u257 dev\u257 ya Pu\u7779 pabhadrasv\u257 mine. (DS).\
L. 2. The additional mark above the letter E in Ehavala may be ignored or the vowel-mark may be regarded as an imperfect sign for medial ai; there is an unnecessary visarga sign after the letter \uc0\u7779 \u7789 o in agni\u7779 \u7789 o. (DS).\
L. 12. The following passage is engraved in slightly later characters below the beginning of the second half of the previous line; The contraction bho seems to stand for a word like bhogikau or bhojakau. The first part of the two personal names may possibly be k\uc0\u257 ka also. The form of the akshara read pha in the first name is not regular for the period and may be also regarded as an irregularly shaped p\u257 . (DS).\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Siddam"(ddham)!! mano bhagavata mah\uc0\u257 devansya puppa(\u7779 pa)bhaddarsv\u257 mina\u7717  \
(1) mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 asya-V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 -puttrasya\
2. \uc0\u346 ry-Ehavala Ch\u257 \u7745 tan\u363 la\u347 ya sa\u7745 va 10 6 gipa 2 diva 5 (1*) rajan Vaseshtiputrasya\
agnistoma\
3. v\uc0\u257 jave(pe)y-\u257 \u347 vandha-bahusuvar\u7751 \u7751 aka-y\u257 jinah naikahira\u7745 \u7751 ua-ko\u7789 i-prod\u257 tu\u7717  go-sattasahasra hala \u347 ata sahasra prad\u257 tu(\u7717 )\
4. sva-viryy-\uc0\u257 jjitata-vijaya-k\u299 rtte\u7717  Ik\u7779 v\u257 k\u363 \u7751 \u257 \u7745  Sri Cha\u7745 lasya praputren\u257 (na) mah\u257 jasya M\u257 thar\u299 puttrasya Iksv\u257 k\u363 \u7751 \u257 \u7745 (\u7751 \u257 \u7745 ) \u347 ri V\u299 rapuru\u7779 adatt\u257 ya\
5. pauttre\uc0\u7751 a mah\u257 raj\u257 ya Sagara-Dil\u299 p-\u256 \u7745 bar\u299 \u7779 a-Yudhi\u7779 \u7789 hira (t)ulya Dhar\u7745 ma-vijayasya R\u257 ma\u7779 aeyaeva sarvva-jan-\u257 bhir\u257 n\u257 masya Ikshv\u257 k\u363 \u7751 \u257 \u7745 (\u7751 \u257 \u7745 )\
6. \uc0\u346 ry-\u299 (\u347 ry-E)havada-Cha\u7745 tan\u363 lasya puttre\u7751 a pu\u7779 ya-ka\u7745 d\u299 y\u257 n\u257 m mah\u257 talayar\u257 ya Ske\u7745 da gopasya naptry\u257 \u7717  mah\u257 talavarasya\
7. Kha\uc0\u7745 dah\u257 lasya duhtu\u7717  sesebam\u257 g\u363 ruka-dauhitry\u257 \u7717  utara-mah\u257 talavara-bh\u257 gineyy\u257 \u7717  r\u257 j\'f1a\u7717  \u347 ry-Ehavia-Cha\u7745 am\u363 lasya\
8. mahi\uc0\u7779 y\u257 \u7717  nah\u257 devy\u257 \u7717  Kupa\u7751 a \u347 ry\u257 \u7717  (\u347 riy\u257 \u7717 ) puttre\u7751 a mah\u257 r\u257 ja kum\u257 re(\u7751 a) mah\u257 sen\u257 patin\u257  H\u257 rit\u299 putre\u7751 a Ikshv\u257 k\u363 \u7751 \u257 \u7745 \
9. Sri-Virapuru\uc0\u7779 adattena mah\u257 r\u257 jasya mah\u257 devy\u257  gottrasya cha (V)ijaya vaijayike \u257 yur-Vvardhane dvayor=api cham\u257 t\u257  putrayo(\u7717 )\
10. dhamma-phala\uc0\u7745  bhagavato(ta\u7717 ) Pu\u7779 abhadre sv\u257 mina\u7717  devakula\u7745  k\u257 rita\u7745 \
dhvajasta\uc0\u7745 bha(bha)\u347 =cha prayi\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pita\u7717  grsam\u347 =cha pu\u7693 oke\u7693 a\u7745 (dam)\
ad\uc0\u7779 aya-ni(n\u299 )vi\
11. datta\uc0\u7717 (!!*)\
12. \uc0\u346 ri-ka(\u7745 )k\u257 phala(\u7717 ) ka\u7745 kachamdra\u347 =cha-bho 2(?)\
_______________\
L 1. The double danda is followed by a slanting curved stroke. Read mahadevuya pushpabhadra svamine.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS054 Site 106 Pillar inscription, year 24\
D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXV No. 4. p 12_13.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 150 (No 37)\
This inscription is engraved in a stone pillar showing carvings representing the four\
principal incidents in the life of the Buddha, found at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (D.C. Sircar)\
Siddha\uc0\u7745  siddham [||] mah\u257 r\u257 jasya Ik\u7779 v\u257 k\u363 n\u257 \u7745 (\u7751 \u257 \u7745 ) \u347 r\u299 -Ehavala-Chantam\u363 lasya samva(sa\u7745 va)tsara\u7745  chaturvv\u299 \u347 a\u7745  var\u7779 a-pak\u7779 a\u7745  chatu[rttha]\u7745  divasa\u7745  pa\'f1chama\u7745  \u346 r\u299 [parvvate] [Vijaya]p\u363 (pu)ryy\u257 \u7745  Ma[h\u257 ]dev\u299 -[pa]rive[\u7751 ]e Iru[sak\u257 (?)]n\u257 \u7745  [kula]pras\u363 [tasya] Ba[ra\u7751 a?]k\u299 y\u257 n\u257 \u7745 (n\u257 m) I(\u298 )[\u347 varada]ttasya putre\u7751 a Syandaha-parvvata-\u347 re\u7779 \u7789 hin\u257  Ku[m\u257 ]ranandin\u257  saha bharyy\u257 ya \u347 re\u7779 \u7789 hin\u299 ya putre\u7751 a cha I\u347 varabharttin\u257  \u347 e\u7779 e\u7751 a cha svajana-sambandhi-vargge\u7751 a iya\u7745  bha[ga]vato\u7717 (ta\u7717 ) sartva(rvva)-satv[o](ttv-o)tta[masya] sarvva-gu\u7751 a-p\u257 rami(m\u299 )-pr\u257 ptasya samyak-sambuddhasya Buddha[s]ya \u347 ailamay\u299  pratim\u257  prati\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pit\u257  \u257 tma\u7751 a\u7717  sarvva-satv\u257 (ttv\u257 )n\u257 \'f1=cha hita-[su]kh-\u257 rttha\u7745 (rttham ||) bhavati ch=\u257 tra \u347 lok\u257 (ka\u7717 ) | [Deya]-dharmmam=ida(ma)\u7751 =k\u1088 tv\u257  yat=pu\u7751 ya\u7745  samup\u257 rjjita\u7745 (tam) | te[na] pu\u7751 ye\u7751 a(na) loko=ya\u7745  nir[vv]\u257 \u7751 am=adhigachchhatu || \
__________________________________________________\
From impressions. Siddha\uc0\u7745  expressed by symbol. Note that the word siddham follows the symbol indicating the same word apparently due to the inadvertence of the scribe.\
(For \uc0\u347 r\u299 -Ehavala) sandhi has not been observed here.\
Read sa\uc0\u7745 vatsare chaturvvi\u7745 \u347 e var\u7779 a-pak\u7779 e chaturtthe divase pa\'f1chame.\
Read bh\uc0\u257 ryyay\u257  \u347 re\u7779 \u7789 hiny\u257 .\
Read \uc0\u298 \u347 varabhartr\u257  or -bha\u7789 \u7789 in\u257 .\
The punctuation (|) is indicated by a slanting curve; the last punctuation is indicated by two slanting strokes, the tops of which are joined by a curved line. The metre of the stanza is Anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh. \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. siddha\uc0\u7745  siddham (!!) mah\u257 r\u257 jasya Ik\u7779 v\u257 k\u363 n\u257 m(\u7751 \u257 \u7745 ) \u346 r\u299  Ehavala-\
Cha\uc0\u7745 tam\u363 lasya so\u7745 va(sa\u7745 va)tsaram charur-pa\'f1chana\u7745  \u346 r\u299 (parvvate) (vaijaya)\
p\uc0\u363 (pu)ryy\u257 \u7745  Ma(h\u257 )divi-(Pa)rave(\u7751 )e Iru(sal\u257  ?)n\u257 \u7745  (kula)pras\u363 (tasya) B\u257 (ra\u7751 a ?)k\u299 y\u257 n\u257 \u7745 (n\u257 m) I(\u298 )(\u347 varada)ttasya putre\u7751 a syanka-parvvata-sre\u7779 \u7789 hin\u257  Ku(m\u257 )ranandin\u257  saha bharyy\u257  sre\u7779 \u7789 hinjya putre\u7751 a cha \u298 \u347 varabharttin\u257  \u347 e\u7779 e\u7751 a cha svajana-sa\u7745 bandhi-vargge\u7751 a oya\u7745  bha(ga)vate\u7717 (ta\u7717 ) sartva(rvva)-satv(o)(ttv-o)tta(masya) sarvva-gu\u7751 a-p\u257 rimi(mi)-praptasya samyak-sanvudhhasya Buddha(s)ya \u347 silanayi pratim\u257  prati\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pit\u257  \u257 tha\u7751 a\u7717  sarvva-satv\u257 (ttva)n\u257 \'f1= cha hita(su)kh-\u257 rttham(rtthm!!) bhavati ch-\u257 tra \u347 lok\u257 (ka\u7717 ) ! Dey\u257  dhar\u7745 ma\u7745 =ida(ma)\u7751 =k\u1088 tv\u257  yat=pu\u7751 ya\u7745  samup\u257 rjjit\u257 m(ta\u7745 ) ! \
te(na) pu\uc0\u7751 ye\u7751 (na) loko=ya\u7745  nir(vv)\u257 \u7751 am=adhiga-Chchhatu!! \
____________\
siddha\uc0\u7745  is expressed by symbol. Note that the word 'Siddham' follows the symbol indication the same word apparently due to the inadvertence of the scribe.\
Sundhi has not been observed here.\
Read 'Samvatsa'ra Chaturvvimse varsha-paksha chaturtthe divase panchame.\
Read 'Bharyyaya sresthinya.\
Read I\uc0\u347 varabhartra or bhattina.\
The punctuation is indicated by a slanthing curve.\
The punctuation is also indicated by a slanting stroke.\
The punctuation is also indicated by two slanting strokes, the tops of which arc joined by a curved line, the metre of the stanza is Anushtub.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS055. Patagandhigudem (Kalla Cheruvu) copper plates \
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 152(No 37A)\
The grant was soldered to circular ring with seal, in oval shape and beams blank. It\
consists of 5 plates engraved in Brahmi characters of 3rd-4th centuries A.D. with 25 lines of\
writing. The language, Sanskrit, as found in other Ik\uc0\u7779 v\u257 kus lithic records at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT\
\
First Plate - Second side\
1. Sidham || Namo bhavato ss\uc0\u257 (sa)rvajnayall vijayjkkham-\
2. dhavara Dhamakada to Maharaja Asamedha-\
3. Yaji Akkaya hiramma kotti(i) padayih Ikskinam\
\
Second Plate - First side\
4. ramno siri chavala chatamula vamm\uc0\u257 naveti-\
5. ettha pithumde sa bhittane hi mahavihar\uc0\u257 va-\
6. ra ddare chatusale amhehi karitam essaya khanda\
\
Second Plate - Second side\
7. pulla santhappasa chatusale agamtika vathavvama pavva\
8. yitanam visamanattham ramno Ehalavatthamana vattha-\
9. vehi pavvayite hi avaraddhara seliyehi-\
\
Third Plate - First side\
10. Arya ykkhapmuhehi nutthiya asana(m)\
11. karitam kkyhyanivi katunam ramno appano-\
12. punnopparya nayu balavatthnatthm ayanadat\uc0\u257 raka(m)\
\
Second Plate - Second side\
13. katuna pithunde mahaviharasa nagarassa uttara di-\
14. saye mahasetiye mahache(e)laksetthasa kula\
15. ttha pattaggama patthe halakkhettasa niyttan bathi(sa)\
\
Fourth Plate - First side\
16. 30 2 nide hanipoli 11 pithundassa uttara disaye va\
17. huthivari pachhima disaye puppkalase ha-\
18. lakkhettas niyattana chatusatthi 60 4 nide janippoli-\
\
Fourth Plate - Second side\
19. av\uc0\u257 raddari chatusalas sa h\u257 la bhikku bhoga katuma-\
20. samya(p) dattam anathi mhatalavar Aggasi\uc0\u1092  samvachhra-\
21. hemam 4 divasam 1 jecha ettaka rahano raja\
\
Fifth Plate - First side\
22. mattava talavara mahatalavara va jo etssahala bhi(kku)\
23. bhogasa ragena kodhen va lobhena mohena va-\
24. harati haratiti vahara(m) va anuvattati se\
\
Fifth Plate - Second side\
26. pamcha mahapatakena sa pu.........\uc0\u7789 hatiti\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS056 Site 126 Pillar inscription (333 AD ?)\
D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXV No. 1. p 6_7\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 154 (No 38)\
This inscription is engraved on lime-stone pillar found at the burning ghat at\
Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (D.C. Sircar)\
\
Sidha\uc0\u7745  | \
1 namo bhagavate(to) sava-loka-mahitasa [No\uc0\u7693 ag\u299  ?]saras\u257 misa [|*] [mah\u257 ]r\u257 jasa [asamedha-y\u257 jisa aneka-hira\u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-pad\u257 yisa siri-Chatamulasa putasa] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . \
2 siri-Virapurisadatasa putasa ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o Vasi\u7789 hiputasa [Ikh\u257 ]kuna siri-Ehavala-Chatamulasa savachhara\u7745  Vija . . . [mha]-pa [2] diva 1 [ra\'f1o] veja[yi]ka ayu-vadhani[ka] cha apana\
3 saha-mati[\uc0\u7751 a] seyatha atepura-mahatarik\u257 ya Bhagava[t\u257 ya] se\u7789 hi-b\u257 lik\u257 ya Ra[tava]saya vi\u7693 aya . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
4 bhagavato [No\uc0\u7693 ag\u299  ?]saras\u257 misa devakula thala [cha k\u257 ri]t\u257  akhaya-n\u299 vi cha kat\u257 \u7751 a masanumasikasa vadhisa . . . . . . . . . dhika-seniya [din\u257 ri] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . [din\u257 ri] dasa 10\
5 panika-seniye din\uc0\u257 ri dasa 10 puvika-seniye din\u257 ri dasa 10 [|*] eva[\u7745 ] senisu chatusu . . . . . . . . dinari-sa[ta] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . \
6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . sara chhaya . . . . . . paraputa . . . . . . . ni . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vak\uc0\u257 ye sadha\
7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . thika . . . . . . . tarapa [Pa]ra\uc0\u7693 ika Bhagaphula Sa\u7789 hapa [|*] apan\u257  cha chitana\u7745  katava\u7745  [|*] eva cha akara\u7745 ta se\u7789 hi-pamakha nigam[o] karaya\u7745 ti || \
______________________________________________\
From impressions. The word Sidha\uc0\u7745  is engraved in the left margin near the beginning of line 2.\
L. 1. The words ra\'f1o and M\uc0\u257 \u7693 har\u299 putasa may have been engraved here.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 2. (For Vija . . . ) the two damaged aksharas here are no doubt -ya\uc0\u7745  gi-.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 4. (For . . dhika-seniya [din\uc0\u257 ri]) the context suggests that 70 din\u257 ris were deposited in the \u347 r\u1077 \u7751 i in question; (for . . [din\u257 ri] dasa) - the name of the guild here cannot be deciphered.(D.C. Sircar)\
L. 7. The word (karaya\uc0\u7745 ti) is used in the sense of Sanskrit k\u257 rayeyu\u7717 ; the punctuation seems to be indicated by a few vertical strokes.(D.C. Sircar)\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Siddham: namo bhagavate(to) (sava-loka-mah\uc0\u299 tasa) (No\u7693 ag\u299  ?) s\u257 ra-s\u257 misa (!) (mah\u257 )r\u257 jasa\
(asamedha y\uc0\u257 ajisa aneka-hira\u7751 a-ko\u7789 i-pad\u257 yisa-\u347 r\u299  Ch\u257 mtam\u363 lasa putasa)......... \
2. Siri-Virapurisadatasa putasa ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o v\u257 si\u7789 hiputasa (Ikh\u257 )kuna Siri Ehavasa-Chamtamulasa savachharam Vija... (\u7745 ha)-pa(2)diva 1 (ra\u7745 \'f1o) veja(yi)ka ayuvadhani(ka) cha apana-\
3. saha mati(\uc0\u7751 a) sayath\u257 tepura-mah\u257 t\u257 rik\u257 ya Ehagava(t\u257 ya) sethi-b\u257 lik\u257 ya Ra(tava)saya vi\u7693 aya.........\
4. Ehagavato (No\uc0\u7693 agi) sara-s\u257 misa devakula thala (chak\u257 ri) t\u257  akhayan\u299 v\u299  cha kat\u257 \u7751 a m\u257 sikasa vadhisa........\u7693 hika seniya (din\u257 ri) .................. (din\u257 ri) dasa 10\
5. pa\uc0\u7751 ika-se\u7751 iye din\u257 ri dasa 10 puvika-seniye din\u257 ri dasa 10 (!) eva(\u7745 ) senisu\
ch\uc0\u257 tusu....\u7693 in\u257 ri sa(ta)..............................\
6. .................\uc0\u7779 ara chhaya...........paraputa...............\u7751 i................vak\u257 ye sadha\
7. ......................\uc0\u7789 hika.............\u7789 \u257 r\u257 pa (pa)ra\u7693 ika Bhagaphula sathapa (!) apan\u257  cha chit\u257 na\u7745  katava\u7745  (!) eva cha ak\u257 r\u257 \u7745 ta sethi pamakha nigam (0) k\u257 raua\u7745 ti !! \
______________________\
L 1. The word Siddham is engraved in the left margin near the beginning of line 2. The word 'rano' and Madhariputasa' may have been engraved here.\
L 2. The two damaged aksharasa here are no doubt 'yamghi'\
L 4. The context suggets that 70 dinaris were deposited in the 'sreni' in question. The name of the guild here cannot be deciphened.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS057 Site 56 Memorial pillar inscription (No 39)\
D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXV No. 5 p 13\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 155 (No 39)\
This inscription is engraved on a memorial pillar found near a mandapa about 100 yards north east of the antiquity section, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 . . . . . . aka-siri-Ehavala-Cha\uc0\u7745 tamulasa [sa] . . . . . .\
2 . . . . hema . . . diva 10 araka-bha\uc0\u7693 arakasa . . . . . .\
3 yati-sama\uc0\u7751 a-kha\u7745 dhikatasa Ko\u7693 a[rakasa]\
4 [chh\uc0\u257 ya-kha\u7745 bho |]\
_______________________________\
From impressions.\
L. 1. The intended word may be arako (Sanskrit \uc0\u257 ryaka). Even if this is accepted, we can scarcely connect this epithet with the name of the Aira family (cf. above, Vol. XXX\u299 , p. 85, note 3); apparently at the end of stk. there was here something like sava followed by numerical symbols indicating the year of the date when the inscription was engraved (DS). \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ...............aka Siri Ehavala-Chamtam\uc0\u363 la(sa)............ \
2. ..............\uc0\u7717 ama.........\u7693 iva 10 araka-dha\u7693 \u257 rakasa................\
3. yati-sama\uc0\u7751 a-kha\u7745 dhikatasa ko\u7693 \u257 (rakasa).\
4. (chh\uc0\u257 y\u257 -kha\u7745 bho)\
_______________\
L 1. The intended word May be 'araka' (Skt. aryaka) even if this is accepted, we can scarcely connect this epithet with the name of the 'Aira' family (cf. sp. Ind., XXX\uc0\u299 , p. 85, note 3.) Apparently there was, her something like 'saya' followed by numerical symbols indicating the year of the data when the inscription was angraved.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS058 Site 1 Ayaka pillar inscription B 1\
This inscription is engraved on a piece of an Ayaka pillar found in the south side of the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p. 17;\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 156 (no 40);\
estampage Leiden N8 (V-1 First pillar).\
\
TEXT (Vogel)\
(1) sidha\uc0\u7745  mah\u257 r\u257 jasa . . . . . . -sena-parigahitasa Agiho-\
(2) t-\uc0\u256 gi\u7789 homa-V\u257 ja . . . .[hi] rana ko\u7789 i-go-sata-\
(3) sahasa-hala . . . . savathesu apati-\
(4) hata-sa[\uc0\u7745 ]kapasa V[\u257 ]se- . . . Ch\u257 tam\u363 lasa bhagini- \
(5) ya mah\uc0\u257 talava[rasa] . . . . . . [si]risa bha[riy\u257 ]ya ma-\
(6) h\uc0\u257 tala-variya . . . . mah[\u257 ]r[\u257 ]jasa\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS059 Site 39 Sculpture pedestal inscription\
Narasimhaswami, H. K. E.I. Vol. XXIX, pt. V. p. 139.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 157 (No 41)\
This inscription is engraved on the pedestal of sculpture representing a sitting under female figure (now broken) made of white marble stone, found on the northern slope of the Nagarjuna hill, over looking the Krishna river at\
Nagarjunakonda, now kept in the Museum.\
\
TEXT (Narasimhaswami)\
\
Sidha[m*] | Mah\uc0\u257 d\u1077 v\u299 ya a-vidhav\u257 ya j[\u299 ]vaput\u257 ya Mah\u257 r[\u257 ]ja-siri-\
[Ehavala Cha\uc0\u7745 tamu]la-pati[ya] Kha\u7745 \u7693 uvul\u257 ya k\u257 rit\u257 ti 8 [|] 9\
_______________________\
The punctuation (|) is indicated by a hook-like mark.\
This ([Ehavala Cha\uc0\u7745 tamu]) portion of the inscription bears numerous scratches on the stone somewhat obliterating the letters enclosed in the brackets.\
(For pati[ya])The stone has slightly peeled off here and with it the lower half of the letter ya has gone. There is a distinct mark of an anusv\uc0\u257 ra over ti. Probably the expression is pati\u7745 ya, a corrupt form used in the sense of patny\u257 .\
(For k\uc0\u257 rit\u257 ti) This expression obviously stands for k\u257 rit\u257  iti.\
The slanting stroke at the end seems to stand for the punctuation.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha(\uc0\u7745 )! Mah\u257 deviya a _vidhav\u257 yaj(\u299 ) vaput\u257 ya mah\u257 r(\u257 )ja-Siri (Ehavala\
Chamtam\uc0\u363  la-pati(ya) Kha\u7745 \u7693 uvul\u257 ya k\u257 rit\u257 ti (!) \
___________\
The punctuation is indicated by a hook like mark.\
This portion of the inscription bears numerous scratches on the stone some what obliterating the letters enclosed in the brakets.\
The stone has slightly peeled off here and with it the lower half of the letter 'ya' has gone. There is a distinct mard of an anusyara over 'ti'.\
This espression obviously stands for 'Karitaiti'.\
The slanting stroke at the end seems to stand for the punctuation.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS060 Site 7 Memorial pillar inscription (No 42)\
D.C. Sircar, EI, V. XXXIV p 210\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 158 (No 42)\
This inscription is engraved on a stone fragment found at site No. 7 at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath=Sircar)\
1. ....................(cha) tethika (na) ...............\uc0\u7745 ak\u257 ..........\
2. ....................\uc0\u7735 asa cha bhadaphula sa\u7789 hapa sa(ma)gandaka-vathavakki\
3. .................bhu\uc0\u7745 jutavasa akhaya-n\u299 vika dat\u257 g\u257 ma-pa.......\
4. ..............\uc0\u7717 a\u7745  (ka) kol\u363 ra\u7745  Nelachaba(sam)..................\
5. ....................ya cha Apara(ma)-.........\
6. ...,........\uc0\u7779 a cha (akhaya)-niv(i) d(\u299 )n\u257 ri-m\u257 sak\u257  (na\u7745 )diva\u7693 ha\u7745  (bha)......\
7. ..........\uc0\u7779 upayutam (!*) es\u257  cha akhaya-n\u299 vi-ku(li)ka-pamukh\u257 ya\u7745 .........\
8. .............atatheya chi..........ya\uc0\u7745  (hi)..............\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS061 Site 56 Footprint slab inscription\
D. Ch. Sircar and A. N. Lahiri - EI, Vol. XXXIII No. 46, p 247_50\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 159 (No 43)\
This inscription is engraved on a stone slab bearing a representation of the Buddha's feet\
found near the entrance of the stupa at site marked V-6, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 Sidha\uc0\u7745  [|*] \u257 chariyana\u7745  Theriy\u257 na\u7745  Vibhaja-v\u257 d\u257 na\u7745  Kasmira-Ga\u7745 dh\u257 ra-Yavana-Vanav\u257 sa-Ta\u7745 bapa\u7745 nidipa-pas\u257 dakana\u7745 \
2 Mah\uc0\u257 vih\u257 ra-v\u257 sina\u7745  nava[\u7745 ]ga-Sathu-sasana-atha-vyajana-vinichhaya-visaradana\u7745  ariya-va[\u7745 ]sa-paveni-dharana\u7745 \
3 vih\uc0\u257 re Bhagavato p\u257 da-sa\u7745 gh\u257 \u7693 \u257  nipati\u7789 hapito sava-sat\u257 na\u7745  hita-sukh-athan\u257 ya ti | 19\
_______________________\
From impressions.\
L. 3. The intended reading is either sa\uc0\u7745 gh\u257 \u7693 \u257  nipati\u7789 hapit\u257  or sa\u7745 gh\u257 \u7693 o nipati\u7789 hapito; the punctuation is indicated by a horizontal line.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  (!) \u257 chariyana\u7745  theriy\u257 na\u7745  vidhajav\u257 d\u257 na\u7745  kasmira-Ca\u7745 dh\u257 ra-vanav\u257 sa-Ta\u7745 bapa\u7745 ni-dipapas\u257 dakana\u7745 \
2. mah\uc0\u257 vih\u257 rav\u257 sina\u7745  Nav\u257 (\u7745 )ga-sathu-s\u257 sana-athavyajana-viniehhaya-vis\u257 rad\u257 na\u7745  ariya-va(\u7745 )sapaveni-dharena\u7745 \
3. vih\uc0\u257 re ehagavato p\u257 da-sa\u7745 gh\u257 \u7693 \u257  ni-patithapito sava-sat\u257 na\u7745  hita-sukh-\u257 than\u257 ya ti ! \
____________\
L 3. The intednded reading is dether 'Samghada-nipatithapita or Samghado nipatithapito'\
The punctuation is indicated by a horizontal line.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS062 Memorial pillar inscription (No 44)\
D.C. Sirvar E.I. Vol. XXXV. pt I. p. 13\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 160 (No 44)\
This inscription is engraved on a memorial pillar found near a mandapa about 100 yards north of the Antiquity section at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ............oka siri-ehavala-chamtamulasa(sa)............. \
2. ............\uc0\u7717 ema..........\u7693 iva 10 \u257 rada-bha\u7693 \u257 rakasa................\
3. yati-sama\uc0\u7751 a-khamdhikatasa ko\u7693 a(rakasa)\
4. (chh\uc0\u257 y\u257 -kha\u7745 bho !)\
___________\
L 1. ...aka instead oka (DS), The intended word may be araka (skt. aryaka), even if this is accepted we can scarcely connect this epithet with the name of the 'Aira' family (of. EI XXX\uc0\u299 , p. 85, note. 3) Apparently there was, here something lide 'Sava' followed by numerical symbols indicating the year of the date when the inscription was engraved. (identical notes for both)\
L 2. DS have \uc0\u257 rada for \u257 raka \
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS063 Memorial pillar inscription (No 45)\
D.C. Sircar E.I. Vol. XXXIV, p. 209\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 161 (No 45)\
\
Text\
\
1. 1. - (ma)\uc0\u7693 a bha(\u7693 ana)............\
2. .......(chh\uc0\u257 ) ya\u7745  (y\u257 )_tha\u7745 bho\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS064 Memorial pillar inscription (No 46)\
D.C. Sircar E.I. Vol. XXXIV, p. 209\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 162 (No 46)\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 . . . . . . . [ga]ra\uc0\u7751 a-vathavasa kula-puta[sa] \
2 [Ma?]rab\uc0\u257 na R\u257 jamisiri-kula[kasa]\
3 Damasama[ka]sa p[u]ta-[Si]-\
4 sa[ba]sa Parama\uc0\u7693 i-bha\u7693 a[sa]\
5 pa\uc0\u7693 itasa chh\u257 y[\u257 ]-tha\u7745 [bho] [||*]\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ........(ga)ra\uc0\u7751 a_vathavasa kulaputa(sa)\
2. (* ma ?)rab\uc0\u257 na R\u257 jamisiri-kula(dasa)\
3. Damasama(da)sa P(u)ta-(si)_-\
4. sa(ba)sa perama\uc0\u7693 i-bha\u7693 a (sa)\
5. ..... pa\uc0\u7693 itasa chh\u257 y(\u257 )-tha\u7745 (bho) (!!*).\
___________\
L 2. This line seems to have no letters at the beginning.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS065 \uc0\u256 bh\u299 ra Vasu\u7779 \u1077 \u7751 a inscription, year 30 \
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXIV. pt. ii, p. 210\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 163 (No 47)\
This inscription is engraved on a stone pedestal in the site of long rows of pillars of a mandapa on the band of the river Krishna, in the north-east corner of the Nagarjunakonda, now kept in the Museum.\
\
TEXT (D.C. Sircar)\
\
S\uc0\u299 ddha\u7745  ||\
1 nam\uc0\u1086  bhagavat\u1086  d\u1077 va-parama-d\u1077 vasya pur\u257 \u7751 a-puru\u7779 asya N\u257 r\u257 ya\u7751 asya [|*] ra(r\u257 )j\'f1\u299  V\u257 s\u1077 (si)\u7779 \u7789 h\u299 -putrasya \u256 bh\u299 rasya Vasu\u7779 \u1077 \u7751 asya sa[\u7745 ]vatsara(r\u1077 ) [30] v\u257 -p\u257  [7]\
2 [d]ivasa(s\uc0\u1077 ) 1 ma[h]\u257 gr\u257 mik\u1077 na(\u7751 a) ma[h\u257 ]talavar[\u1077 na(\u7751 a)] mah\u257 da\u7751 \u7693 an\u257 yaka(k\u1077 )na Kau\u347 ika-[sa]g\u1086 tr\u1077 na(\u7751 a) P\u1077 ribi\u7693 \u1077 h\u257 \u7751 \u257 \u7745 (n\u257 \u7745 ) \u346 ivas\u1077 b\u1077 na Sa\u7745 jayapur[\u299 ]\u7751 a-Y\u1086 r\u257 jibhi[\u7717 *]\
3 \uc0\u256 va[nta]k\u1077 na \u346 ak\u1077 na Rudrad\u257 m[\u1077 ]na V\u257 nav\u257 sak\u1077 na [cha] Vi\u7779 \u7751 u-rudra-\u347 iva[l\u257 ]na\u7751 da-[S\u257 ta]-kar\u7751 \u7751 in\u257  [s]th[\u257 ]n\u257 (na)t\u1086 =pi na ch\u257 lit\u1086 (ta) [\u1077 ]\u7779 a bhagav\u257 \u7745 (v\u257 n) Ru\u7745 bara-bhav\u1086  \u256 \u7779 \u7789 a\u7745 jasv\u257 mi\
4 [S\uc0\u1077 \u7693 a]-gir\u299 ya sth[\u257 ]pit\u1086 (ta\u7717 ) parv[va]tasya cha pr\u257 k\u257 r\u1086  chit\u257 pit\u1086  v\u257 [pi] cha Mah\u257 [na\u7745 ]d\u257  s\u299 (\u347 \u1086 )dhit\u257  ta\u7693 \u257 g\u257 ni cha 2 \u346 \u1077 \u7693 a-giriya\u7745  Mu\u7693 \u1077 r\u257 ya cha kh\u257 \u7751 it\u257 ni tala-va\u7751 \u257 ni cha\
5 r\uc0\u1086 pit\u257 ni [|*] y\u1086 (ya\u347 )=cha Br\u257 hma\u7751 -\u257 rt[th]\u1077  mitr-[\u257 r]tth\u1077  cha pr\u257 \u7751 a[m=a*]pi na pari[tya*]k\u7779 ati gu\u7751 ata\u347 =cha [Sa]rvv-\u257 tithi[\u7717 *] [sarvva-sakha][\u7717 *] k\u1088 taj\'f1a[\u7717 ] sa[t]ya-[v]ra[ta][\u7717 *] \u347 atru-ga[\u7751 =\u257 ]vamard\u299  [|*] ru(\u1088 )jur=[vva\u7789 a]-ny\u257 sana=pr[\u1077 ]ma-[n]i-\
6 [\uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u1086 ] y\u1086  [dh\u257 *]rmik\u257 [\u7717 *] s[\u257 ]dhu-jan-\u257 bhina\u7745 di(d\u299 ) |[|*] [ul\u1077 khaga]=ch=\u257 s[y]a S\u1077 \u7745 baka-Vardham\u257 na[k\u1086 ] Bharadv\u257 ja-sag\u1086 [tr\u1077 ]\u7751 a am\u257 ty\u1077 na Ti\u7779 yasar\u7745 m\u1077 \u7751 a Bhagavach-[chhakty]\u257 \u7717 (kty\u257 ) k\u1088 ta[\u7745 ] [|*] svasti g\u1086 -vr\u257 t[\u1077 bh]ya\u7717  |\
\
___________________________________\
From impressions. (DS)\
Sanskrit siddham || nam\uc0\u1086  bhagavat\u1077  d\u1077 va-parama-d\u1077 v\u257 ya pur\u257 \u7751 a-puru\u7779 \u257 ya N\u257 r\u257 ya\u7751 \u257 ya. The first word is enaraved in the left margin near the beginning of lines 1-2. The punctuation is indicated a double da\u7751 \u7693 a followed by a slanting stroke. (DS)\
L. 1. This is a contraction of Prakrit V\uc0\u257 sa-p\u257 kh\u1077 =Vassa-pakkh\u1077 =Sanskrit var\u7779 a-pak\u7779 \u1077  (for va-pa)(DS) Ragh read ra(r\u257 )jan, v\u257 p\u257  6 sidha\u7745 . \
L. 2. (for \uc0\u346 ivas\u1077 b\u1077 na) Sanskrit -\u347 \u1077 p\u1077 na; as indicated above, this may be a mistake for Y\u1086 nar\u257 jabhi\u7717  (Sanskr Yavanar\u257 jai\u7717 ). We can also read Samjayapur\u299 t\u1086 . But the epithets \u256 vantaka and V\u257 nav\u257 saka applied to two other persons in the same context suggest that Sa\u7745 jayapur\u299 \u7751 a is preferable. (DS) Ragh read Paribi\u7693 \u1077 h\u257 \u7751 \u257 \u7745  \u346 ivas\u1077 b\u1077 nara \
L. 3. Sanskrit -d\uc0\u257 mn\u257  (for Rudrad\u257 m[\u1077 ]na); read ru\u7745 bara-bhav\u1086 =\u7779 \u7789 abhujasv\u257 m\u299 . The deity's name A\u7779 \u7789 abhujasv\u257 min is known from another inscription. Instead of the akshara bhu, which has been left out by the engraver, \u7789 a is engraved below \u7779 \u7789 a. (DS) Ragh read \u256 nantak\u1077 na instead \u256 va[nta]k\u1077 na.\
L. 4. Sanskrit S\uc0\u1077 \u7789 a-girau (for [S\u1077 \u7693 a]-giriya); Sanskrit pr\u257 k\u257 ra\u347 =chitrita\u7717  (for pr\u257 k\u257 r\u1086  chit\u257 pit\u1086 ); read v\u257 p\u299  cha or v\u257 pi\u347 =cha (for v\u257 [pi] cha); Sanskrit ta\u7693 \u257 g\u1077  cha 2 S\u1077 \u7789 a-girau Mu\u7693 \u1077 r\u257 y\u257 \u7745  cha kh\u257 nit\u1077 ; Sanskrit tala(t\u257 la)-van\u257 ni (for tala-va\u7751 \u257 ni). (DS) Ragh read Seda-g\u299 r\u299 ya\u7745 \
L. 5. This (after gu\uc0\u7751 ata\u347 =cha)is followed by a stanza in the Upaj\u257 ti metre; even though na (in -ny\u257 sana) is followed by a conjunct, it has to be regarded as a short syllable owing to a convention according to which short syllables may not be lengthened before pr, hr, br and kr (cf. Apte's Pract. Sans.-Eng. Dict., 1924, p. 1035). (DS) Ragh read pr\u257 \u7751 \u257 pi na par\u299 k\u7779 ati Ragh omit [sarvva-sakha][\u7717 *], read satyaka-vrata\u7717 \
\
\uc0\u256 bh\u299 ra Vasu\u7779 \u1077 \u7751 a inscription, year 30 \
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXIV. pt. ii, p. 210\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 163 (No 47)\
This inscription is engraved on a stone pedestal in the site of long rows of pillars of a mandapa on the band of the river Krishna, in the north-east corner of the Nagarjunakonda, now kept in the Museum.\
\
TEXT (K. Raghunath)\
1. Namo bhagavato devaparamadevasya pur\uc0\u257 \u7751 apuru\u7779 asya N\u257 r\u257 ya\u7751 asya (r\u257 )rajan V\u257 se\u7779 \u7789 h\u299 putrasya \u256 bh\u299 rasya Vasusenasya samvatsara 30 v\u257 pa 6 sidha\u7745 \
2. divasa(se) 1 mah\uc0\u257 gr\u257 mike\u7751 a(na) mah\u257 talavarana mah\u257 dan\u7693 an\u257 yakena kau\u347 ika gotrena paribi\u7693 eh\u257 \u7751 \u257 \u7745  \u347 ivasebenara sa\u7751 jayapuri\u7751 a yor\u257 jibhi\u7717 \
3. \uc0\u256 nantakena \u347 akena Rudrad\u257 mena Vanav\u257 sakena ca Vi\u7779 \u7751 u-Rudra-Sival\u257 na\u7751 da S\u257 takar\u7751 \u7751 in\u257  sth\u257 n\u257 topina c\u257 lito(ta) (e)\u7779 a bhagav\u257 \u7745  Rumbara-bhavo \u256 \u7779 \u7789 a\u7745 jasav\u257 mo \
4. Sedagir\uc0\u299 ya sth\u257 pito parvatasya ca pr\u257 k\u257 ro cit\u257 pito v\u257 pica mah\u257 na\u7751 d\u257  sodhit\u257  ta\u7693 \u257 g\u257 nica 2 se\u7693 ag\u299 r\u299 ya\u7745  Mu\u7693 er\u257 yaca kh\u257 \u7751 it\u257 ni talav\u257 \u7751 anica\
5. ropit\uc0\u257 ni yo\u7779 a br\u257 hma\u7745 \u257 rthe mitr\u257 rthe ca pr\u257 \u7751 \u257 pi na par\u299 kshati gu\u7751 ata\u347 cha sarvv\u257 tithi(\u7717 ) k\u1088 taj\'f1a\u7717  satykavrata \u347 atruga\u7751 \u257 va mard\u299  (I)rujur(vvata) ny\u257 senprmem \
6. (\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ho)yo (dh\u257 )mik\u257 (\u7717 ) s\u257 dhjan\u257 bhinandi (1*) ulekhagasch\u257 sya sambaka-cardham\u257 na(ko) Bharadv\u257 jasagotre\u7751 a am\u257 tyena Ti\u7779 yasarme\u7751 a bhagavach-chakty\u257 \u7717  k\u1088 ta\u7745  (1 *) svasti go-vr\u257 t(ebh)ya\u7717 i .\
_________________\
L 1. Earlies Dr. Subrahmanyam took at to be 9 (ct. I. A. R, 1958-59,p. 8) however, Dr. Sircar, converted it to 30 m the assunation that the m\uc0\u363 bra sesembles. The letter "le" (E. IXXXIV-19 p.). But the plates indicate no such letter. It is a compressed tirm of the numoral '20' the too horizontal line out the risht vertical line make a sight auple and the letter is obosed from all sides, so as rather to resemble the letter "ba" with the lost are notched. It can also be lidered. supertieially to bulged torms of "tha" (it Dari, 283). The form agrees with many Variants of the numeral 20 (is In, 27-28, no 3, 2, 3, 5 and 14; ala Buhler, indische palaeograplic, pt IX, col. 13; G. H. Ojha, Bharatiya praehinalipimala, pt. L X\u299 , col. 4, 9; Ep. lud XXI, 82, or XXXIII, 295, line \u299 . We may be permitted to draw the readers attention to the Chinnahanjam inscription of Gotamiputra Yajna Satakarmi, were the mummeds 20 or 7 at giver-cf. Jour, of Indian history, XLIII, 242, pt, line 3 (Jih) 1. K. sarma reads this as 20 year in Indica, Vol. V\u299 , 1 p. 5\
L 3. Read: Astabhuaja Swami (Makh, 197 a Bowbay).\
L 5. Dr. Sircar read it as "yo (yes) ca", but we take it to be yasa the nominative singular of yetad. The visarga, when to by a conspant in the scutence, is dropped, hev the phrase reads 'Ye\uc0\u7779 a br\u257 hma\u7751 a'. Verse in upajati, metre\
L 6. The intended reading may be go-br\uc0\u257 hmanebhyo\u7717 \
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS066 Two labels inscriptions on the counch-shells (48)\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 165 (No 48)\
in list he include this inscription to Vasushena inscriptions and notice previously publication : I.K. Sarma, EI, Vol. V\uc0\u299 , (Bombay, 1970), pp. 1-17 which is obviously Journal of Indian Epigraphy (unavailable for me now)\
\
TEXT\
\
on the first shell (corch)\
1. Ehagavato athabuja s\uc0\u257 misa\
\
(on the shell) (corch)\
2. Ucchita(racchita) ka\uc0\u7751 a saro\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS067 Site 64 Pillar inscription at Yaksha-Kubera temple \
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 166 (No 49)\
in list he include this inscription to Vasushena inscriptions and notice previously publication : Annual Report on Indian Epigraphy, 1959-60, pp. 51-52\
Nos. 74-80 (unavailable for me now)\
This inscription is engraved on a stone pillar at the Yaksha-Kubera Temple at\
site No. 64., sector III, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT\
1. Vasu sa\uc0\u7745 gh\u257 t\
2. si\uc0\u7745 havatti\u7717  stha\
3. A\uc0\u7789 habhujasa\
4. Devapura pavi\uc0\u7717  laya.........ka...........\u7771 a\u7717 .......\u7745 asi\
5. bhaya\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS068. Site 36 Memorial Pillar inscription \uc0\u346 ri Ehuvula Ch\u257 \u7751 tam\u363 la of Kulahaka family\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 14\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 167 (No 50)\
The inscription is engraved on a pillar discovered outside the eastern gate\
of the citadel in site no. 36, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 Sidha\uc0\u7745  [|*] kha\u7745 dh\u257 v\u257 r\u257 na okha\u7745 dhakasa amita-\
2 janasa dapa-damanasa Olabaku-\
3 hathi-g\uc0\u257 hakasa mah\u257 sen\u257 -\
4 patisa Ku\uc0\u7735 ahak\u257 na\u7745  siri-Cha\u7745 ta-\
5 pu\uc0\u7735 asa chh\u257 ya-thabho [|]\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  (!) kha\u7745 dh\u257 v\u257 r\u257 na okha\u7745 dakasa amita-\
2. jana sa d\uc0\u257 pa-damanasa-olabaku\
3. hathi-g\uc0\u257 hakasa mah\u257 sen\u257 -\
4. patisa kulahak\uc0\u257 na\u7745  Siri-Cha\u7745 ta-\
5. pu\uc0\u7735 asa chh\u257 ya-thabho (!)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS069 Site 113 Stone fragment inscription of ...\uc0\u7693 atta\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 15\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 168 (No 51)\
This inscription is engraved on a stone fragment found in the field\
near the palace area at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . tasa sa\uc0\u7745 vachhara\u7745  . . . .\
3 gimha-pakha\uc0\u7745  bitiya\u7745  divasa\u7745  pa\u7693 hama\u7745  1 [Si]-\
4 ripavate Vijayapuriya puva-dis\uc0\u257 -bh\u257 -\
5 ge vih\uc0\u257 re Chula-Dha\u7745 magiriya\u7745  Acha\u7745 tar\u257 j-\u257 -\
6 chariy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  sakasamaya-parasamaya-sa-\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ............................................................\
2. ................\uc0\u7789 asa sa\u7745 vachhara\u7745 .............\
3. gi\uc0\u7745 ha-pakha\u7745  b\u299 tiya\u7745  divasa\u7745  pa\u7693 hama\u7745  1 (Si)-\
4. ripavate Vijavapur\uc0\u299 ya puvadisa bh\u257 -\
5. ge vih\uc0\u257 re ch\u363 la-dha\u7745 ma giriy\u257 m Acha\u7745 tar\u257 j\u257 -\
6. chariy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  sakasamaya-parasamayasa\
(The inscription abruptly ends here)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS070 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (52)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 15\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 170 (No 52)\
The inscription is engraved on a pillar found at site 113 at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 Maga[la]ra\uc0\u7751 a-vathavasa\
2 ra\uc0\u7789 hikasa Bhatasa p\u257 [sa] . . . . . . . . . . \
3 bha\uc0\u7693 a\u7751 a[\u7745 ] padita[na]\u7745  chh\u257 y\u257 -tha[bho] [||*]\
___________________________\
From impressions. It is A. R. Ep., 1956-57. No B 34.\
L. 2. The intended word seems to be pas\uc0\u257 dit\u257 na\u7745  (Sanskrit pras\u257 dit\u257 n\u257 m).\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Maga(la)ra\uc0\u7751 a-vathavasa\
2. rathikasa bhatasa p\uc0\u257 (sa)............ \
3. bha\uc0\u7693 a\u7751 a(\u7745 ) padit\u257 (na)\u7745  chh\u257 y\u257 -tha(bho) (!!*)\
__________\
L 2. The intended words seems to be 'P\uc0\u257 s\u257 dit\u257 na\u7745 .\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS071 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (53)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 15\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 171 (No 53)\
The inscription is engraved on a pillar found at site 113 at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 Magalara\uc0\u7751 a-va[tha]va[sa] se[n\u257 ]pat[isa]\
2 [Ra?]\uc0\u7789 apu\u7789 asa pata[tana\u7745 ] bha\u7693 ana\u7745  pasa . . . . . . . . . .\
3 . . . . . [y\uc0\u257 ]-kha\u7745 [bho] [||*]\
___________________________________________\
From impressions.\
L. 2. The intended word seems to be pas\uc0\u257 dit\u257 na\u7745  as in No. 1 above, though in the other record the word comes before bha\u7693 ana\u7745 .\
L. 3. The lost akshara is apparently chh\uc0\u257 .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. magalara\uc0\u7751 a-va(tha)va(sa) se(n\u257 )pat(isa)\
2. (Ra?)\uc0\u7789 aputasa pata(tana\u7745 ) dha\u7693 anam pasa.............. \
3. ................. (y\uc0\u257 )-kham(bho)(!!*)...........\
_______________\
L 2. The intended word seems to be 'pasaditanam', though in the other records, this word comes before 'Bhadanam'.\
L 3. The lost akshara is probably 'Chha'.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS072 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (54)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 16\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 172 (No 54)\
The inscription is engraved on a pillar found at site 113 at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 [Mava(ga)la]ra\uc0\u7751 a-vathava[sa se]n\u257 pati-\
2 [sa] Karadaru-kum\uc0\u257 rasa [pasa] . . . . . bha[\u7693 a]na\u7745 \
3 paditana[\uc0\u7745 ] chhaya-kha\u7745 bho [||*]\
____________________________\
From impressions.\
L. 2. The intended word appears to be pas\uc0\u257 dita- or pas\u257 dit\u257 na\u7745  as in Nos I-\u299  above.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. (mava(ga)la) ra\uc0\u7751 a vathava(sa se)n\u257 pati\
2. (sa)k\uc0\u257 radaru-kum\u257 rasa (pasa)....... bha(da)na\u7745 \
3. padit\uc0\u257 na(\u7745 ) chh\u257 y\u257 -kha\u7745 bho (!!*)\
_______________\
L 2. The intended word appears to be 'pasadita or pasaditana'.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS073 Site 113 Memorial Pillar inscription (55)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 16\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 172 (No 55)\
The inscription is engraved on a pillar found at site 113 at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 Magalara\uc0\u7751 a-vathavasa ra\u7789 hikasa\
2 [Harakasa pasadatana patata]-\
3 na[\uc0\u7745 ] ma(bha)\u7693 a . . . . . . . . .\
4 chha[ya]-kha[bha] [||*]\
_______________\
From impressions. It is A. R. Ep., 1956-57, No. B 33. \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. magalara\uc0\u7751 a-vathavasa ra\u7789 hikasa\
2. (harakasa pasadatana patata-)\
3. na(\uc0\u7745 )ma (bha)da ................\
4. chh\uc0\u257 (y\u257 )-kha(bha)(!!)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS074 Site 9 Broken image pedestal inscription (56)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 19\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 173 (No 56)\
The inscription is engraved on the padestal of a broken image of Buddha discovered at site no. 9, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 . . . . . . rikasa Ko\uc0\u7693 abudhisa bhariy\u257 ya [Mak\u257  ?]l\u257 ya . . . . . . .\
2 . . . ti[\uc0\u7789 h\u257 v]ita\u7745  pa\u7693 ima [||*]\
________________________________\
From impressions. This is A\uc0\u7771 .Ep., 1958-59, No. B 77.\
L. 1. The intended word was something like n\uc0\u257 garika (i.e. belonging to the city of Vijayapur\u299 ) or p\u257 v\u257 rika (Sanskrit pr\u257 v\u257 rika) which is found in some early inscriptions (above, Vol. XIX, pp. 66 (No. I), 97). A pr\u257 v\u257 rika was probably the maker of pr\u257 v\u257 ras, i.e. cloaks used by monks.\
L. 2. The lost akshara is no doubt pa so that the intended word is pati\uc0\u7789 h\u257 vita\u7745 .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ..............\uc0\u7771 ikasa ko\u7693 abudhisa bhariy\u257 ya (mak\u257 ?)l\u257 ya ...........\
2. ....\uc0\u7789 i (th\u257 v)ita\u7745  pa\u7693 ima (!!*)\
__________________\
L 1. The intended words was something like 'naharika' (i. \uc0\u1077 ., belonging to the city of Vijayapuri) or pavarika (Skt. pravarika) which is found in some early inscriptions (EI, XIX, pp. 66, No. 1,97). Apravarika was probably the marker or pravara i.e., clocks used by monds.\
L 2. The lost akshara is no doubt 'pa' so that the intended word is patithavitam.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS075 Site 59 Memorial Pillar inscription (57)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 16\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 174 (No 57)\
This inscription is found at site no. 59 at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 Pa[va]y\uc0\u257 takasa\
2 \uc0\u257 vesanikasa\
3 Tama\uc0\u7751 iyakarasa\
4 M[\uc0\u363 ]labhutasa\
5 chh\uc0\u257 ya-tha[bha] [||*]\
___________________________\
From impressions. It is A. R. Ep., 1958-59, No. B 82.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. pa(va)y\uc0\u257 takas\
2. \uc0\u257 vesanikasa\
3. tama\uc0\u7751 iya darasa\
4. M(\uc0\u363 )labhutasa\
5. Chh\uc0\u257 ya-tha(bha) (!!*)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS076 Site 60 Memorial Pillar inscription (58)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 17\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 176 (No 58)\
The inscription is engraved on a memorial pillar bearing sculptured panels found in site\
no. 60 in sector IV, at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
\
1 . . . . mah\uc0\u257 se[n\u257 pa]tisa mah\u257 tala . . . . . . . \
2 [Araka-Ma]ha-Ko\uc0\u7693 uvakasa Aya[bhuti]sa\
3 chhaya-khabho |\
____________________________\
From impressions. It is A. R. Ep., 1958-59, No. B 83.\
L. 1. The damaged word here may be sidha\uc0\u7745 ; the lost aksharas at the end of stk. are no doubt -varasa.\
L. 2. Better read Arakasa separately from the compound.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. ...... Mah\uc0\u257 se(napa)tisa mah\u257 tala.......... \
2. (Araka -Ma)ha-koduvakasa Aya(bhuti)sa\
3. Chh\uc0\u257 ua-khabho !\
____________\
L 1. The lost akshara is no doubt 'pa' so that the intended word is patithavitam. The damaged word here may be 'Sidham'.\
L 2. The lost letters (aksharas) are no doubt 'varasa'.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS077 University site Memorial Pillar inscription (59)\
D.C. Sircar E. I. Vol. XXXV. p. 18\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 177 (No 59)\
This inscription is engraved on a broken pillar found at the University site at\
Nagarjunakonda, the slabmedsires about 9" h* 1 1/2 b\
\
TEXT. (DS).\
1 \uc0\u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \'97 \u1103  \'97 \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  mukkhya-p\u257 chak\u257  [Uka]hvay[e] [||*] [8]\
2 \uc0\u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \'97 \u1103  \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 [sa ma]\u7751 \u7693 apa stamba(mbha)-[\u347 at]-\u257 dhik-ojva(jjva)la[\u7717 ] [|*]\
3 \uc0\u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \'97 \u1103  \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 [ji]t-\u257 tman=\u257 nena dh\u1088 [t]o dh\u1088 t-\u257 tman\u257  [||*] 9\
4 \uc0\u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \'97 \u1103  \u1103  \'97 \u1103  [\u347 o]bhane vih\u257 ra-mukkhye vigatajvar-\u257 laye [|*]\
5 \uc0\u1103  \'97 \u1103  \'97 \'97 \u1103  \u1103  \'97 [nive\u347 it\u257 ] vih\u257 ra-b\u257 h\u257  vipul-\u257 rttha-k\u257 \u7751 k\u7779 i\u7751 \u257  [||*] 10\
\
________________________________________________________\
From impressions.\
L. 1. The intended reading seems to be uk-\uc0\u257 hvaye, though it is uncertain whether uka is the name of an object or a locality. The metre of the stanza is probably Pa\'f1chach\u257 mara. It may also be T\u363 \u7751 aka, though in the latter case the number of syllables in this line would be 30 while the otlier lines would have 24 only. There are, however, other instances of this kind. Cf. verses 1-8 in lines 1-16 of the Allahabad pillar inscription of Samudragupta (C\u299 , Vol. III, p. 6). If it is believed that there were only nine syllables in a foot, the metre may be K\u257 min\u299  as well, though such short stanzas (except Anu\u7779 \u7789 ubh) are rarely known from inscriptions.\
L. 3. The metre of this stanza and the following one is Va\uc0\u7745 \u347 astha.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ....................................\uc0\u7745 ukkhaya p\u257 chak\u257  (uka)hvay(e) (!!) (8),\
2. ....................(sama)\uc0\u7751 \u7693 apa stamba(\u7745 bha)-(sat)\u257 dhik-ojva(jjva)la(\u7717 ) (!)\
3. ....................(ji)t-\uc0\u257 tman=\u257 nena dh\u1088 i(t)\u1086  dh\u1088 it-\u257 tman\u257  (!!*) 9 \
4. ................(so)bhane vih\uc0\u257 ra-mukkhye vigatajvar\u257 laye (!)\
5. .............(nive\uc0\u347 it\u257 ) vih\u257 ra-bh\u257 h\u257  vipul\u257 rtha k\u257 \u7751 k\u7779 i\u7751 \u257  (!!) 10\
____________\
L 1. The intended reading seems to be uk-ahvaye, though it is uncertain whether Ukha' is the name of an object or a locality. The metre of the stanza is probadly panchachama. It may also be 'Tunaka' though in the latter case the number of syllables in this line would be 30 while the other lines would have 24 only, here are, however, other instances of this kind. Cf. Verses 1-8, in lines 1-16, of the Allahabad pillar inscription of Samudragupta (C.I.I. Vol. Ill, p. 6.). If it is believed that there were only nine syllables in a foot the metre may be Kamini as well though such short stanzas (except, Anushtubh) are rarely knwon from the inscription.\
L 3. The metre of this satanza and the following one is Vamsas.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS078 Gangaperuru Memorial Pillar inscription (59A)\
Mentioned as previous publication P.V. Parabrahma Sastry, "Inscriptions of Andhra Pradesh, Cuddapah District", part-I, (Hyderabad, 1977)\uc0\u1092  P.1, No.366 of 196.\
\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 178 (No 59A)\
\
TEXT\
1. (pari)\uc0\u257 chariya putasa\
2. Bh\uc0\u257 r\u257 kasa gotasa sivad\u257 sa (G\u257 rga-bha)\
3. sa g\uc0\u257 mesa ge(--sa) chh\u257 y\u257 kha\u7745 bha\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS079 Site-9 Stupa 9 Ayaka pillar inscription N (60)\
J. Vogel, EI XXI, p. 68\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 179 (No 60)\
This inscription is engraved on an Ayaka pillar at the site of the stupa no. 9, at\
Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
(L. 1) . . . rina\uc0\u7745 k\u257 na\u7745  M\u363 lasirinaka[sa] Sidhatha- \
(L. 2) [ka]sa Chadamukhasa Pudhinakasa b\uc0\u257 lika(\u257 ) \
(L. 3) Mahatuva\uc0\u7751 ika Sidha\u7789 ha\u7745 \u7751 ik\u257  Jakhana . . . . . .\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. .....\uc0\u7771 ina\u7745 k\u257 na\u7745  m\u363 lasiri\u7751 ika(sa) sidh\u257 tha-\
2. (ka)sa chadamukhasa pudhinakasa b\uc0\u257 lik\u257 (\u257 )\
3. Mah\uc0\u257 tuva\u7751 ika sidh\u257 tha\u7745 \u7751 ik\u257  jakhana.............\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS080 Site 1 Stone frieze inscription (61)\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, p 25.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 180 (No 61)\
This inscription is engraved on a stone frieze showing a figure of the Dharmachakra\
flanked, either side, by the mithuna fugures, near the Mahachaitya at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
(l. 1) Sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato aga-pogalasa Budhasa Chhadakapavatich[e]na Paduma-[v\u257 ]-niya gharaniya sagaya saputak\u257 na\u7745  Hagas[i]r[i]sa sagasa Nagatarasa cha sabhaja[sa] \
(l. 2) saputik\uc0\u257 na[\u7745 ] cha deyadham[o] pa\u7789 o unisa cha mah\u257 chetiye pati\u7789 h[\u257 ]vito\
___________________\
The transcript and translation of inscriptions J and K should be regarded as provisional.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidham Namo bhagavato agapogalasa Budhasa Chhadaka-pavatich(e)na paduma (v\uc0\u257 )niya gharaniya sagaya saputak\u257 na\u7745  Hagas(i)r(i)sa sagasa nagatarasa cha sabhaja(sa)\
2. Saputik\uc0\u257 na(\u7745 ) cha deyadham(o)pata uni cha Mah\u257 chetiye patithavito !\
____________\
L 2. Read Patithppito (Skt. Pratistapito).\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS081 Fragmentary sculpture inscription K (62)\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, K, p 25.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 181 (No 62)\
This inscription is engraved on a sculptured been at Palugubodu in Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
(l. 1). . . . . . . saputak[\uc0\u257 ]na[\u7745 ] cha Dhamasa Padumasa cha [Bha]dasa Hughasa saput-[i]k[\u257 ]na[\u7745 ] cha . . . . . . . . . . . . . \u7717 ad[\u257 ]ya Budh[\u257 ]ya Padum\u257 ya M[is\u257 ]ya Chula-Budh-[\u257 ]ya N[\u257 ]k[\u257 ]ya cha saj[\u257 ]m[\u257 ]tuk[\u257 ]na[\u7745 ] san[\u257 ]tuk[\u257 ]na[\u7745 ] sanat[i]na[\u7745 ] cha san\u257 di-m[i]ta-ba[\u7745 ]dhav\u257 na[\u7745 ] cha deyadham[o] pa\u7789 a niba sapadaka . . . .\
_________________________\
Perhaps sap\uc0\u257 duka-pa\u7789 \u7789 a. [Perhaps the reading is 'pa\u7789 \u257 ni be sap\u257 duk\u257 ni', meaning two slabs with footprints.-Ed.]\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. ..........\uc0\u7745 aputak(\u257 )na(\u7745 ) cha Dhamasa Padumasa cha (bha)dasa Hughasa saput(i)k(\u257 )na(\u7745 ) cha ..................... Had(\u257 )ya Padum\u257 ya M(\u299 s\u257 )ya Ch\u363 la-Budh(\u257 )ya N(\u257 )k(\u257 )ya cha saj(\u257 )m(\u257 )tuk(\u257 )na(\u7745 ) san(\u257 )tuk(\u257 )na(\u7745 ) sanat(i)na(\u7745 ) cha san\u257 dim (i)ta-ba(\u7745 )dhav\u257 na(\u7745 ) cha dey\u257 dha\u7745 (o)pa\u7789 a niba sapadaka...... \
________\
Perhaps 'Sapaduka-patta (perhaps the reading is 'patani' be sapadukani' meaning two slabs with footprints-Ed.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS082 Gurzala pillar inscription 4 year\
K. A. Nilakantha Sastri - EI XXVI, No. 13. p 123\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 182 (No 63)\
The inscripted slab measures about 5'* 19".\
This inscription is engraved on a grey marble slab bearing its centre a carved pillar with a bulbous base and a double bulbous capital, found setup behind the Traveller's Bungalow at Gurzala.\
\
TEXT. (NS)\
\
1 Sidham | Bhagavate Hala\uc0\u7745 p\u363 ra-s\u257 mine apa\u7751 o ayuvadhinika\u7745 \
2 Noduka-siri kheta\uc0\u7745  sa\u7745 pada[tt\u257 \u7745 ] 5 Mah\u257 rajasa\
3 Siri-Ru\uc0\u1078 upurisad\u257 tasa sa ta 4 gi 8 diva 10 |||\
_______________\
L. 1. [Reading seems to be ayuvadhanike. - N. L. R.]\
L. 2. Cancel the length of the final vowel and read: sa\uc0\u7745 padatta\u7745 . \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  (!*) bhagavate H\u257 la\u7745 puras\u257 mine apano avuvadhanika\u7745  \
2. No\uc0\u7693 ukasiri kheta\u7745  sa\u7745 p\u257 da(tta\u7745 ) mah\u257 r\u257 jasa\
3. Siri-Ru\uc0\u7735 upurisadatasa sata 4 gi 8 diva 10.\
_______________\
L 1. Read: Ayuvadhanike, which means for the longivity.\
L 2. Read: Sampadata, which means gift.\
L 3. Sata, stands for 'Samvatsaram. Gi stands for Gri\uc0\u7779 mapakha i.e., summer season. diva stands for divasam of day.\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS083 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a inscription of the time of Rudapurisadata, Year 11\
D.C. Sircar Vol. XXXIV_2., p 20 \
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 184 (No 64)\
This inscription is engraved on a pillar bears a scripture executed in bas-relief above the\
inscripiton found at Nagarjunnakonda.\
\
TEXT (DS)\
\
1 Mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa asamedha-[y\u257 ]jisa aneka-hira\u7745 na-ko\u7693 i-go-sa-\
2 tasahasa-hala-satasahasa-pad\uc0\u257 yisa sv\u257 mi-siri-Cha\u7745 tam[\u363 ]lasa\
3 pasun[h]\uc0\u257 ya mah\u257 r\u257 jasa [sv\u257 m]i-[s]i[r]i-V\u299 rapuri[sadatasa|\
4 su\uc0\u7745 nh\u257 ya mah[\u257 ]r\u257 jasa [sv\u257 mi]-S[i]ri-Ehavala-Cha\u7745 tam\u363 lasa\
5 patt\uc0\u299 ya ra\'f1o V\u257 si\u7789 h\u299 puttasa Ikh\u257 k\u363 na\u7745  siri-Ru\u7693 a-\
6 purisadatasa m\uc0\u257 t\u363 ya mah\u257 dev\u299 ya mah\u257 khatapa-dh\u363 t\u363 ya Ba[ha]-\
7 phala-sagot\uc0\u257 ya siri-Va\u7745 mabha\u7789 \u257 ya sa\u7745 vachhara\u7745  ekk\u257 ra\u7745  10 1\
8 v\uc0\u257 s\u257 -pakha\u7745  pathama\u7745  1 divasa\u7745  a\u7789 hama\u7745  8 saga-gat\u257 ya chh\u257 ya-\
9 kha\uc0\u7745 [bho] ||\
\
______________________________\
From impressions. \
L. 9. The full-stop is indicated here by a curve slanting towards the lower right and having a dot above and another dot below its beginning. This may be compared to the punctuation indicated by a horizontal stroke with a dot above and another below, as found in the copper-plate grants of the \uc0\u346 arabhapura kings. See above, Vol. XXXIII, p. 157, note 9; p. 158, note 1. (DS)\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
\
1. mah\uc0\u257 r\u257 jasa asamedha-(y\u257 )jisa anekahira\u7745 \u7751 a-ko\u7693 i go-sa-\
2. ta saha-hala-satasahasa-pad\uc0\u257 yisa sv\u257 yisa sv\u257 mi siri Ch\u257 mtam(\u363 )lasa\
3. pasun(h)\uc0\u257 ya mah\u257 r\u257 jasa (sv\u257 m)i-(S)i(r)i-Virapur\u299 (sadatasa)\
4. sum\uc0\u7745 h\u257 yamah(\u257 )r\u257 jasa (sv\u257 mi)-S(i)ri-Ehavala Chamtam\u363 lasa\
5. patt\uc0\u299 ya ra\'f1o V\u257 si\u7789 hiputta sae Ikh\u257 kuna\u7745  Siri Ruda-\
6. purisadatasa m\uc0\u257 t\u363 ya mah\u257 deviya mah\u257 khatapa(ja)-dhutuy\u257  ba(ha)\
7. phalasa got\uc0\u257 ya Siri Vammabha\u7789 \u257 ya sa\u7745 vachhara\u7745  rkk\u257 ra\u7745  10(+) 1\
8. v\uc0\u257 sa-pakha\u7745  pathama\u7745  1 divasa\u7745  a\u7789 hama\u7745  8 saga-gat\u257 ya chh\u257 y\u257 -\
9. kham(bho) 11 \
____________\
L 1. Read : Ko\uc0\u7789 i(la) Skt. Mah\u257 k\u7779 \u257 trapa\
L 9. The full-stop is indicated here by a curve slanting towards the lower right and having a dot above and another dot below its beginning This may be compared to the punctuation indicated \
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS084 Fragmentary pillar inscription (65)\
Mentioned previous publication by T\uc0\u7751 . Ramachandran in 'Journal of Oriental Research' Vol. XVI, part-I, (Madras-1948) p. 91.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 186 (No 65)\
This inscription is engraved on a blue-limestone pillar discovered in the Buddhist site at\
Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT\
\
1. ..............................,.............................\uc0\u7735 a\
2. ...............\uc0\u7779 asya suddh\u257 c\u257 ra v\u1088 ittasya a................ \
3. l\uc0\u257  kalma\u7779 a \u347 \u299 la\u347 va hetv\u257 rtha\u347 abda \u347 \u257 stra k\u1088 itapa(ri)\
4. sram\uc0\u257 ya \u257 gama vinayopadesa prakaran\u257 c\u257 ryy\u257 \u7745 a\
5. taldh\uc0\u257 rasya vritta \u347 rutamati v\u257 g-vais\u257 radya-gunodapam\
6. \uc0\u7751 asya dharmmka\u7789 hika p(r)av\u299 (\u7751 a)\u347 ya viniscaya\
7. kathikavisi\uc0\u7779 \u7789 asya ma\u7745 (tra)............p\u299 \u7789 addhva-\
8. ja sam\uc0\u1088 iddhasa.........................\
9. ya...................,.........................\
(incomplete inscription)\
______________\
L 2. Reads Gasva suddhacara vrittasya akunthacchidra (ma)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS085 Site 64 Label inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (66)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 51, 'on 100 pillared mandapa'\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 187 (No 66)\
The label inscription is engraved on 100 pillared mandapa Yaksha-Kubera Temple site at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Vidhikasa\
\
IKS086 Site 64 Label inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (67)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 51, 'on 100 pillared mandapa'\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 188 (No 67)\
The two labels were the names of the pilgrims found at Nagarjunakonda (in the 100\
pillared mandapa-Yaksha-Kubera Temple, at Nagarjunakonda.)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. 'Kuram\uc0\u257 nasa'\
2. 'Vidhikasa'\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS087 Site 64 Pilgrim inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (68)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 51, 'on 100 pillared mandapa'\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 188 (No 68)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Dhamasa\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS088 Site 64 Pilgrim inscription from Yaksha-Kubera Temple (69)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 51, 'on 100 pillared mandapa'\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 188 (No 68)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Dadhisara setu\
2. 'Viruma'\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS089 Site 61 Pilgrim inscription (70)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 51,\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 189 (No 70)\
These labels are the names of the Pilgrims from Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT\
\
1. 'Taralamagha'\
2. Kum\uc0\u257 rik\u257 ma\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS090 Site 64 Pilgrim inscription (71)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 51,\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 189 (No 71)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. sa\'f1gha ca\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS091 Site 85 Pilgrim inscription (72)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 51,\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 189 (No 72)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Heyati \
________\
Read Keyata\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS092 Site 23 Fragmentary inscription (73)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p.. 52,\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 189 (No 73)\
This inscription is engraved on broken pillar at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Bu.............\
2. Hathikasa\
3. Budh\uc0\u257 ra khitasa.. do\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS094 Site 99 Fragmentary inscription (75)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p. 52.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 190 (No 75)\
It is engraved on a fragmentary stone from Sarvadeva Temple at Nagarjunakonda.\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Nikila\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS095 Site 84 Fragmentary inscription(76)\
Mentioned previous publication in ARIE, 1959-60, p. 51.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 190 (No 76)\
\
TEXT\
1. (Siri)m\uc0\u257 tula\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS096 Footprint slab inscription (77)\
J.Ph. Vogel, EI XX, 1, addition 1\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 191 (No 77)\
This inscription is engraved on a slab with the carving of foot-prints\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
Sid[dha\uc0\u7745 ] Sakasa Modasa bak[i]n[i]ya Budh[i]ya pat[i]pad\u257  deyadhama\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sid(dha\uc0\u7745 ) (!!) Sadasa modasa bak(i)n(\u299 )ya pat(i) P\u257 da dey\u257  dha\u7745 a\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS097 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala pillar inscription A (78)\
J. Ph. Vogel, EI.XXVII, No. 1.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 191 (No 78)\
This inscription is engraved on a white marble pillar found near the Ramanamma tank at Ghantasala.\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
1 [Si]dha\uc0\u7745  | Ukhasirivadha[m\u257 n\u1077 ] Ka\u7745 \u7789 akas\u1086 la-vathav\u1077 na\
2 Dha\uc0\u7745 mav\u257 niya-put\u1077 na Budhisirigahapatin\u257  ima\u7745 \
3 s\uc0\u1077 la-ma\u7745 \u7693 ap\u1086  sa-ga\u7745 dhaku\u7693 i-v\u1077 tika-t\u1086 ra\u7751 \u1086  k\u257 rit\u1086  ti\
___________________________\
The inscribed pillar was found by Dr. Chhabra near the Rama\uc0\u7751 amma tank at Gha\u7751 \u7789 as\u257 la. \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. sidha\uc0\u7745  ! Ukhasirivadha(m\u257 ne)ka\u7745 \u7789 akasola vathavena\
2. Dha\uc0\u7745 mav\u257 \u7751 \u299 ya-putena Budhisiri gahapatin\u257  ima\u7745 \
3. sela-mam\uc0\u7693 apo sa-ga\u7745 dhaku\u7693 i-vetika-tora\u7751 o k\u257 ritoti\
________\
L 3. The form 'Vedika' occurs in Amaravati inscription (E. F. Luder's list nos. 1261, and 1219) with the personal name Dharhmavaniya. We may compare Budhi(v\uc0\u257 )niya (in the ins. no. 11, line 2) of Appevalis-\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS098 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala pillar inscription B (79)\
J. Ph. Vogel, EI.XXVII, No. 1.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 192 (No 79)\
The inscription is engraved on a white-marble stone at Ghantasala\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
1 Sidham | Ukhasirivadham[\uc0\u257 ]n\u1077  Ka\u7745 \u7789 akas\u1086 la-vatha[v\u1077 na]\
2 Dha\uc0\u7745 mav\u257 niya-put\u1077 na Budhisirigahapatin\u257  [ima\u7745 ] \
3 s\uc0\u1077 la-ma\u7745 \u7693 ap\u1086  sa-ga\u7745 dhaku\u7693 i-v\u1077 tika-t\u1086 ra\u7751 \u1086  k[\u257 rit\u1086  ti]\
__________\
The inscribed pillar, about 5 ft. long and 1 ft. wide, is square below and octagonal above. It is now in the compound of the choultry. \
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  ! ukhasirivakham(\u257 )ne ka\u7745 \u7789 akasola vatha(vena)\
2. Iha\uc0\u7745 mav\u257 n\u299 ya-putera Budhisiri gahapatin\u257  (ima\u7745 )\
3. sela-ma\uc0\u7745 \u7693 apo sa-ga\u7745 dhakudi-vetida-tora\u7751 o k(\u257 ritoti)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS099 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala pillar inscription C (80)\
J. Ph. Vogel, EI.XXVII, No. 1.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 192 (No 80)\
The inscription is engraved on a white-marble stone at Ghantasala\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
Ukhasirivadham[\uc0\u257 ]n\u1077  Budhisirigahapatima\u7745 \u7693 avasa |.\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Ukhasirivakham(\uc0\u257 )ne Budhisiri gahapati ma\u7745 \u7693 avasa\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS100 Gha\uc0\u7751 \u7789 asala prakrit inscription D (81)\
J. Ph. Vogel, EI.XXVII, No. 1.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 192 (No 81)\
The inscription is engraved on a white-marble stone at Ghantasala\
\
TEXT. (Vogel).\
1 Sidha\uc0\u7745  Pa\u7789 an\u1077  pu . . . . . . . . . [Apa-] \
2 ras\uc0\u1077 liy\u257 na\u7745  ma . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
3 na\uc0\u7745  bhada\u7745 ta-Na\u7745 da cha . . . . . . . .\
4 budhi upajh\uc0\u257 yasa . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
5 va\uc0\u7745 dh\u257 ya pavajiti[ka] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
6 kaya\uc0\u7745  aya\u7745  cha . . . . . . . . . . . . .\
_______________________\
The inscribed fragment is now in the house of Sri Vemuri Venkayya ex-President of the local Panch\uc0\u257 yat-Board. \
The text is too fragmentary to allow of being translated. The term pavajitik\uc0\u257 , meaning 'a female ascetic' occurs twice in a votive inscription from Amar\u257 vat\u299  published by Dr. Hultzsch (Burgess, op. cit., p. 90, Plate LX, No. 50).\
\
TEXT (Raghunath)\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  pa\u7789 ane p. u.................. (apa-)\
2. rase liy\uc0\u257 na\u7745  ma.................................\
3. na\uc0\u7745  bhada\u7745 ta-na\u7745 da eha..................\
4. dudhi upajh\uc0\u257 yasa.............................\
5. Va\uc0\u7745 dh\u257 ya pavajuti(ka)......................\
6. Kaya\uc0\u7745  aya\u7745  cha.................................\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS101 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a unpublished inscription (82)\
This is an unpublished lable inscription found at Nagarjunakonda.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 193 (No 82)\
\
TEXT\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  ! s\u257 vaguri\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS102 N\uc0\u257 g\u257 rjuniko\u7751 \u7693 a unpublished Ayaka pillar inscription(83)\
This is an unpublished inscription found at Nagarjunakonda.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 194 (No 83)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Sidha\uc0\u7745  !! namo bhagavato devar\u257 ja sakatasa supabudha bodhino savam\'f1uno\
2. savasat\uc0\u257 nukampakasa juta-r\u257 ga dosa.......\u7745 oha ganiva sa\u7745 dha................\
3. gadha pathisa samasa\uc0\u7745 budhasa bh\u257 tuvara (parigahitsa)mah\u257 r\u257 ja(sa)\
4. Vir\uc0\u363 pakhapati mah\u257 sena par\u299 ga(hitasa)................\
5. .....\uc0\u7789 a sahasapad\u257 yisa savathesu (apat\u299 hata)...................\
6. siri bh\uc0\u257 tuno.......................................\
(much damaged)\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS103 Pedabankur Terracotta Seal inscription (84)\
This is an only reviewed in "Indian Archaeology" inscription.\
K. Raghunath 2001, p. 195 (No 84)\
\
TEXT\
\
1. Peddabankur\
(Terracotta seal)\
Vijayapura-h\uc0\u257 rakasa rathasa\
\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS000 Unindentified fragments under Leiden estampage N9\
\
III-1 Second pillar\
(1) sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato sa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 masa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 budhasa dh\uc0\u257 tuvaraparigah\u299 tasa \'b0imamhi mah\u257 cet\cf2 i\cf0 ye \
(2) mah\uc0\u257 rajasa vir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigah\u299 tasa \'b0agihot\u257 gi\cf2 \uc0\u7789 ho\cf0 mav\uc0\u257 japey\u257 sa-\
(3) medhay\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 igosatasahasahalasatasahasapad\cf2 a\cf0 yisa savathesu \
(4) \'b0apatihatasa\uc0\u7745 kapasa v\u257 s\cf2 \uc0\u299 dh\u299 \cf0 putasa \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 kusa siric\u257 \u7745 tamulasa sodar\u257  bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o \
(5) siriv\uc0\u299 rapurisadatasa pituch\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa v\u257 s\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0 \uc0\u7789 h\u299 putasa p\u363 k\u299 y\u257 \cf2 na\uc0\u7745 \cf0  \
(6) ka\uc0\u7745 dasirisa bhariy\cf2 a\cf0  sama\uc0\u7751 aba\u7745 mha\u7751 akava\u7751 ava\u7751 ijakad\u299 n\u257 nugahavel\u257 mikad\u257 napa\u7789 ibh\u257 gavochina-\
(7) dh\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 rapad\uc0\u257 yini savas\u257 dhuvachal\cf2 a\cf0  mah\uc0\u257 talavari kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 akam\cf2 a\cf0 t\uc0\u257  c\u257 tisiri \'b0apa\cf2 no\cf0  \'b0ubhayakulasa \
(8) \'b0atichit\cf2 i\cf0 -m-an\uc0\u257 gatava\u7789 am\u257 nake parin\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 metuna \'b0atano ca niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 asa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 patisa\uc0\u7745 p\u257 dake \'b0ima\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\u7745  sava-\
(9) lokahitasukhaniv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 \cf2 ya\cf0  \cf2 ca\cf0  pati\uc0\u7789 hapita\u7745  ti \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
III-2 Third pillar\
(1) (si)///[dha]\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato sa\u7745 masabudhasa dh\u257 tuvaraparigahitasa mah\u257 cet\u299 ///\
(2) +++///timah\uc0\u257 senaparigah\u299 tasa \'b0a[g]ihot\u257 gi\u7789 homav\u257 [ja]///\
(3) +++++///[sa]hasaha[la]///\
\
III-3 Fourth pillar\
(1) sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato sa\u7745 masa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvaraparigah\u299 tasa \'b0ima\u7745 mhi mah\u257 cet\cf2 i\cf0 ye \
(2) mah\uc0\u257 rajasa vir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigah\u299 tasa \'b0agihot\u257 gi\cf2 \uc0\u7789 ho\cf0 mav\uc0\u257 japey\u257 sa-\
(3) medhay\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 igosatasahasahalasatasahasapad\cf2 a\cf0 yisa savathesu \
(4) \'b0apatihatasa\uc0\u7745 kapasa v\u257 s\cf2 \uc0\u299 dh\u299 \cf0 putasa \'b0ikh\uc0\u257 kusa siric\u257 \u7745 tamulasa sodar\u257  bhagini ra\u7745 \'f1o \
(5) siriv\uc0\u299 rapurisadatasa pituch\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa v\u257 s\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0 \uc0\u7789 h\u299 putasa p\u363 k\u299 y\u257 \cf2 na\uc0\u7745 \cf0  \
(6) ka\uc0\u7745 dasirisa bhariy\cf2 a\cf0  sama\uc0\u7751 aba\u7745 mha\u7751 akava\u7751 ava\u7751 ijakad\u299 n\u257 nugahavel\u257 mikad\u257 napa\u7789 ibh\u257 gavochina-\
(7) dh\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 rapad\uc0\u257 yini savas\u257 dhuvachal\cf2 a\cf0  mah\uc0\u257 talavari kha\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 \u7751 akam\cf2 a\cf0 t\uc0\u257  c\u257 tisiri \'b0apa\cf2 no\cf0  \'b0ubhayakulasa \
(8) \'b0atichit\cf2 i\cf0 -m-an\uc0\u257 gatava\u7789 am\u257 nake parin\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 metuna \'b0atano ca niv\uc0\u257 \u7751 asa\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 patisa\uc0\u7745 p\u257 dake \'b0ima\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\u7745  sava-\
(9) lokahitasukhaniv\uc0\u257 \u7751 athan\u257 \cf2 ya\cf0  \cf2 ca\cf0  pati\uc0\u7789 hapita\u7745  ti \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u9674 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  ra\uc0\u7745 \'f1o sirivirapurisadatasa\
(10) sa\uc0\u7745 va \cf2 6 \cf0 v\uc0\u257 pa 6 diva 10\
\
++++++++++++++++++++++++\
\
IKS000 Unindentified fragments under Leiden estampage N15 \'91Inscriptions to the East of the hill \uc0\u362 bagu\u7789 \u7789 a\'92\
\
IV-3-b Third pillar\
(1) /// [sakata]sas[u]pab[u]dhabodhino sava\uc0\u7745 \'f1uno savasa[t]///\
\
IV-4-b Fourth pillar\
(1) ///var\uc0\u257 jasakatasa supabudhabodhino sava\u7745 \'f1uno savasat\u257 nuka\u7745 pa[ka]///\
(2) ///vipam[u]tasa \cf2 mah\uc0\u257 ga\u7751 ivasabhaga\u7745 dha\cf0 hathisa sa\uc0\u7745 masa\u7745 budhasa dh\u257 tuvara///\
(3) /// sa \'b0ima\uc0\u7745 mhi mah\u257 cetiye mah\u257 rajasa vir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigahitasa \'b0agi///\
(4) /// \'b0agi\uc0\u7789 homav\u257 japey\u257 samedhay\u257 jisa hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 igosatasahasahala///\
(5) // savathesu \'b0apatihasa\uc0\u7745 ///\
\
IV-2\
(1) ///[va]s\uc0\u257 dhuva///\
(2) /// \'b0atichi[ta]///\
\
IV-1-a Second pillar\
(1) ma///\
(2) va\uc0\u7751 ijaka//\
(3) kha\uc0\u7745 das\u257 gara\u7745 [\u7751 a]///\
(4) rin\uc0\u257 metuna \'b0ubhaya//\
(5) kha\uc0\u7745 bha\u7745  savalokasukha///\
\
IV-4-c Fourth pillar\
Top left part of an inscription\
(1) sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato de///\
(2) jitar\uc0\u257 gadosamoha///\
(3) parigahi[ta]///\
\
IV-4-a Fourth pillar\
Lower part of an inscription\
(1)  /// satasa /// \
(2) /// kapasa v\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 si\uc0\u7789 h\u299 putasa \'b0ikh\u257 kusa siric\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasasodar\u257 bhagini\
(3) \'f1o m\uc0\u257 \u7693 hariputasa sirivira[pu]risadatasa pituch\u257  mah\u257 sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa vasi\u7789 h\u299 putasa \
(4) [p\uc0\u363 ]kiy\u257 na\u7745  kadasirisa bhariy\u257  \cf2 sama\uc0\u7751 abamha\u7751 akava\u7751 ava\u7751 i\cf0 jakad\uc0\u299 n\u257 nugahav\cf2 ai\cf0 l\uc0\u257 mikad\u257 napa\u7789 ibh\u257 -\
(5) gavochinadh\uc0\u257 rapad\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 yini \cf2 savas\uc0\u257 dhuvachal\u257 \cf0  mah\uc0\u257 d\u257 napatini mah\u257 talavari kha\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 das\uc0\u257 gara\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \u7751 akam\u257 t\u257 \cf0 \
(6) c\uc0\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0 tisiri \'b0apano \'b0ubhaya\cf2 kulasa \'b0a\cf0 tichita-m-an\uc0\u257 gatava\u7789 am\u257 nak\u257 na\u7745  parin\u257 metuna \'b0ubhayaloka-\
(7) hitas\cf2 ukhaniv\uc0\u257 \u7751 a\cf0 than\uc0\u257 ya \cf2 \'b0atano ???\cf0  ca sa\uc0\u7745 patisa\u7745 p\u257 da\cf2 ke\cf0  \'b0ima\uc0\u7745  kha\u7745 bha\cf2 \uc0\u7745 \cf0  savalokahitasukhaniv\uc0\u257 \u7751 a \cf2 ???\cf0 \
(8) patithapi\cf2 t\uc0\u257 \cf0  ti \cf2 \'96 ra\'f1o\cf0  siriv\uc0\u299 rapuri\cf2 sa\cf0 datasa sava 6 \uc0\u10218 v\u257 pa \cf2 6\cf0 \uc0\u10219  diva 10 \
\
IV-1-b Second pillar\
Top part of an inscription\
(1) sidha\uc0\u7745  namo bhagavato devar\u257 jasakatasa supabudhabodhino sava\u7745 \'f1uno savasat\u257 nuka\u7745 pakasa ///\
(2) jitar\uc0\u257 gadosamohavipamutasa mah\u257 ga\u7751 ivasabhaga\u7745 dhahathisa sa\u7745 masa\u7745 budhasadh[\u257 ]///\
(3) mah\uc0\u257 cet\u299 ye mah\u257 rajasavir\u363 pakhapatimah\u257 senaparigahitasa \'b0agihot\u257 gi///\
(4) y\uc0\u257 jisa hira\u7745 \u7751 ako\u7789 igosatasahasahalasatasahasapad\u257 yisa savathesu \'b0apati[ha]///\
(5) v\uc0\u257 si\u7789 hiputasa \'b0ikh\u257 kusiric\u257 \u7745 tam\u363 lasa sodar\u257 bhaginira[\u7745 ]\'f1o m\u257 \u7693 har\u299 putasa sirivirapurisadatasa pitu[ch\u257 ]///\
(6) + /// [h\uc0\u257 ]sen\u257 patisa mah\u257 talavarasa v\u257 si\u7789 hiputasa p\u363 k\u299 y\u257 na\u7745  ka\u7745 dasirisabhariy\u257  sama\u7751 abam(ha)[\u7751 a]///\
(7) ++++++++++++ /// [\uc0\u7789 ]ibh\u257 gavochinadh\u257 rapad\u257 yinisa [va]///\
\
\
\
\
\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\'97\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
Add Guntupalle inscriptions?\
\
Add inscriptions from Phanigiri published by OvH\cf0 \
}